Building the Future
Transmission Grid
Strategies to navigate supply
chain challenges
INTERNATIONAL ENERGY
AGENCY
The IEA examines the full         IEA Member            IEA Association
spectrum                          countries:            countries:
of energy issues
including oil, gas and            Australia             Argentina
coal supply and                                         Brazil
                                  Austria
demand, renewable
                                  Belgium               China
energy technologies,
electricity markets,              Canada                Egypt
energy efficiency,                Czech Republic        India
access to energy,                 Denmark               Indonesia
demand side                       Estonia               Kenya
management and much               Finland               Morocco
more. Through its work,           France                Senegal
the IEA advocates                 Germany               Singapore
policies that will enhance        Greece                South Africa
the reliability,                  Hungary               Thailand
affordability and                 Ireland               Ukraine
sustainability of energy
                                  Italy
in its
32 Member countries,              Japan
13 Association countries          Korea
and beyond.                       Latvia
                                  Lithuania
                                  Luxembourg
                                  Mexico
                                  Netherlands
                                  New Zealand
                                  Norway
                                  Poland
                                  Portugal
                                  Slovak Republic
                                  Spain
                                  Sweden
                                  Switzerland
                                  Republic of Türkiye
                                  United Kingdom
                                  United States
This publication and any map
included herein are without
prejudice to the status of or
sovereignty over any territory,   The European
to the delimitation of            Commission also
international frontiers and
boundaries and to the name        participates in the
of any territory, city or area.   work of the IEA




Source: IEA.
International Energy Agency
Website: www.iea.org
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                                   Abstract
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges




Abstract

           The urgency to expand and modernise the electricity transmission network
           infrastructure around the world is putting pressure on supply chains.

           This report explores the evolving landscape of investment in electricity
           transmission networks and key trends related to the supply chain of key
           components. Based on a survey of industry stakeholders in 2024 by the
           International Energy Agency (IEA), it provides insights into how increasing
           infrastructure needs are affecting prices of components, lead times and related
           market dynamics.

           Building on the analysis Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions, this
           report identifies actionable strategies to address challenges related to the supply
           chain for grid infrastructure, with a focus on transmission lines with voltages that
           exceed 66 kilovolts. It highlights growing constraints in the supply chain, the need
           for long-term procurement mechanisms, and the importance of coordinated
           planning to ensure timely infrastructure development. The findings serve as a
           guide for policymakers, regulators and industry leaders to navigate the complex
           landscape of transmission expansion and modernisation in the clean energy
           transition.

           This document was developed under the Regulatory Energy Transition
           Accelerator (RETA) initiative, which aims to enhance the capacity of regulators to
           increase the speed of clean energy transitions.

                                                                                                   I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 3
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                           Acknowledgements
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges




Acknowledgements, contributors
and credits

           The study was prepared by the Energy Investment Unit (EIU) in the Directorate of
           the Office of the Chief Energy Economist (OCEE) in cooperation with other
           directorates and offices of the International Energy Agency (IEA).

           The principal author of this report is Alana Rawlins Bilbao, Energy Investment
           Analyst, who designed and directed the report together with Tim Gould, Chief
           Energy Economist. Other valuable contributions were made by Esra Bozkir
           Broekman, Michael Drtil, Musa Erdogan, Eric Fabozzi, Zoe Hemez, Pablo Hevia-
           Koch, Rena Kuwahata, Peter Levi, Uwe Remme, Cecilia Tam and Floris Van
           Dedem. Eleni Tsoukala provided essential support.

           Debra Justus provided copy-editing for the report. Thanks goes to the IEA’s
           Communications and Digital Office for their help in producing the report and
           website materials, particularly to Jethro Mullen, Poeli Bojorquez, Astrid Dumond,
           Liv Gaunt and Clara Vallois.

           This report benefited greatly from stakeholder discussions from key experts:

           Eli Pack                                         Australian Energy Market Operator

           Felix Morck                                      Avangrid

           Didier Chim                                      Elia

           Thijs Vandenbussche                              Elia

           Alberto Lampasona                                Europacable

           Volker Wendt                                     Europacable

           Harmeet Bawa                                     Hitachi Energy

           Zubin Postwalla                                  GE Vernova

           Ignacio Sanchez-Galán                            Iberdrola

           Victoria Laka Astobiza                           Iberdrola

           Cristina Serrano Goicoechea                      Iberdrola
                                                                                                   I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 4
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                            Acknowledgements
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           Harrison S. Sungu                                KETRACO

           Aymeric Andre                                    Nexans

           Michael Yong                                     NKT

           Michal Kawalec                                   Polskie Sieci Elektroenergetyczne

           Yann Fromont                                     Schneider Electric

           Vijay Shinde                                     Siemens Energy

           Syuuji Mayama                                    Sumitomo Electric

           Gavin Knott                                      Ofgem

           Ulrik Stridbæk                                   Ørsted

           Various contributors                             TEİAŞ

           Luca Pellizzari                                  Terna




                                                                                                    I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 5
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                                                                   Table of contents
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges




Table of contents


  Executive summary ................................................................................................................. 7
  Chapter 1: Grids in the Age of Electricity.............................................................................. 11
     Transmission grids as the key to clean, electrified and secure energy systems .............. 11
     The pressing need to modernise aging infrastructure while driving expansion ................ 12
     The role of transmission in clean energy transitions......................................................... 14
  Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain ........................................................... 19
     The surge in global demand for transmission capacity is shaping the supply chain
     landscape .......................................................................................................................... 19
     Increasing prices for key components............................................................................... 24
     Rising lead times and record-high order backlogs ............................................................ 27
     Facing the procurement challenges .................................................................................. 28
     The hurdle of offshore and submarine transmission lines ................................................ 30
     The 1.5 million job gap in the power grid sector ............................................................... 32
  Chapter 3: Actionable recommendations ............................................................................. 34




                                                                                                                                               I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                                PAGE | 6
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                           Executive summary
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges




Executive summary

Invest in grids today or face gridlock tomorrow
           Expanding and modernising transmission grids is essential for a secure,
           affordable and sustainable energy system. Analysis from the International
           Energy Agency has repeatedly highlighted the crucial role of electricity grids,
           notably in the comprehensive 2023 report Electricity Grids and Secure Energy
           Transitions. The importance of this issue is underscored further by the
           accelerating pace of demand growth for power as the world enters an Age of
           Electricity. The latest IEA near-term forecast is for global electricity consumption
           to grow at close to 4% annually through 2027. Demand is rising both in emerging
           market and developing economies and in many advanced economies, driven by
           industry and by the growing use of air conditioning, appliances, electric vehicles,
           heat pumps, artificial intelligence and other technologies. Transmission grids are
           essential to link new sources of generation with expanding demand centres.
           Strengthening and upgrading transmission infrastructure is also essential to
           enable the cost-effective deployment of wind and solar power and to enhance
           cross-border interconnections.

           Around 1.5 million kilometres of new transmission lines have been built
           worldwide over the last decade, but inadequate transmission remains a
           major constraint on power system development, electrification and energy
           security. Among other issues, grid infrastructure has struggled to keep pace with
           the rate at which new renewable sources are entering the system. This mismatch
           has led to delays in project deployment and increased financial uncertainty: in
           2024, the IEA tracked 1 650 GW of solar and wind projects in advanced stages of
           development that are awaiting grid connections, a major missed opportunity to
           bring clean, cost-effective sources of generation into the mix. At the household
           level, connections to the grid have picked up in recent years, but 750 million
           people remain without access to electricity around the world – 80% of which are
           in sub-Saharan Africa.


A rise in transmission spending is putting the spotlight
on bottlenecks in supply chains
           Recognising the urgency, investment in transmission has started to pick up
           as many countries make grid infrastructure a key priority in their national
           energy plans. Europe, the United States, China, India, and parts of Latin America
           are leading the way, and global investment in power transmission grew by 10% in
           2023 to reach USD 140 billion. There is a strong regional imbalance in investment
                                                                                                    I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 7
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                             Executive summary
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           patterns, with advanced economies and China accounting for about 80% of the
           global total. Under today’s policy settings, this spending would need to exceed
           USD 200 billion per year by the mid-2030s to meet rising needs for electricity, and
           to reach USD 250-300 billion in scenarios that achieve national and global
           emissions goals in full. The required increases in investment are particularly steep
           in many emerging market and developing economies outside China.

           Permitting remains the primary cause of delays in transmission projects,
           particularly in advanced economies, but supply of cables, transformers,
           materials and other components is also becoming a limiting factor. Growth
           in global demand for transmission capacity, driven by simultaneous expansion
           plans in many regions, is putting increasing pressure on supply chains. Demand
           is intensified by a wave of investment in high-voltage and ultra-high-voltage
           transmission projects to facilitate long-distance power transfer, and by the rise in
           offshore wind power that boosts the need for high-voltage subsea cables.


Prices and waiting times for new transformers and
cables have almost doubled
           An IEA survey of leading industry players conducted for this report finds
           that it now takes two to three years to procure cables and up to four years
           to secure large power transformers. Average lead times for cables and large
           power transformers have almost doubled since 2021. Some specialised
           components are even more difficult to source: waiting times for direct current
           cables – often preferred for long-distance transmission lines – extend beyond five
           years. High demand has also substantially driven up prices. Prices for individual
           orders are highly dependent on their complexity and capacity, which vary from
           project to project, but the results of our survey suggest that prices for cables have
           nearly doubled since 2019, and the price of power transformers rose by around
           75%. Underlying materials like copper, aluminium and grain oriented electrical
           steel have also experienced price increases. The combination of rising component
           costs, extended procurement lead times, and a significant backlog of orders is
           contributing to higher project expenses as well as delays.

           Manufacturers are responding with plans and investments to increase
           production capacity, but this will take time, and uncertainties remain over the
           extent of future demand and the availability of a skilled workforce. The visibility
           and credibility of national and regional transmission plans, and their translation into
           component demand, is vital to underpin investment decisions to expand
           manufacturing capacities. A shortfall in specialised labour is a concern both for
           manufacturing and for broader expansion of the grid. Around 8 million people are
           employed worldwide in constructing, maintaining and operating grids, and the IEA
           estimates that this workforce will need to rise by 1.5 million by 2030 under today’s
           policy settings, and even more rapidly in scenarios that meet emissions goals in full.
                                                                                                      I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 8
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                           Executive summary
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges




Coordinated efforts to strengthen the transmission
supply chain are essential
           Today’s tight markets for transmission components highlight the importance of
           integrated strategies for the entire supply chain as countries seek to ensure timely
           grid modernisation and expansion. This report makes eight actionable
           recommendations that can help governments, regulators, buyers, manufacturers
           and other stakeholders navigate supply chain challenges:

           1. Enhance visibility on future demand: Integrated, credible visions for
              electricity sector development at country and regional level, including
              transparent project pipelines and long-term transmission investment plans,
              provide essential guidance for manufacturers on the required quantity and
              types of transmission components. Clear timelines and structured master
              plans, incorporating technical and regulatory requirements, enhance
              confidence across the supply chain.

           2. Strengthen the industry dialogue: System planning is becoming more
              complex as renewable and distributed generation grows. This underscores the
              importance of improved coordination among governments, transmission
              system operators, regulators, developers and manufacturers to underpin well-
              grounded assessments of demand for transmission projects and components,
              and their timely delivery.

           3. Encourage proactive grid investment: In a world where electricity demand
              is rising fast and some new sources of generation can be built within a few
              years, the pace of grid investment needs to step up to prevent bottlenecks,
              including a regulatory framework that supports anticipatory expansion and
              modernisation. With rising costs and longer lead times, proactive strategies
              are needed to align transmission development with power system needs.

           4. Design effective procurement frameworks: Long-term agreements provide
              certainty on prices and supply volumes, encouraging manufacturers to expand
              capacity and enabling buyers to secure essential components. Standardising
              procurement procedures across markets enhances transparency and
              simplifies bidding processes. Aligning procurement policies to national
              infrastructure and energy plans ensures consistency, scalability and
              investment confidence.

           5. Streamline permitting: Transmission expansion projects are complex and
              prone to delays, with permitting remaining a key uncertainty. Maintenance of
              essential safeguards needs to be combined with removal of unnecessary
              administrative barriers and prioritisation of key infrastructure projects. Greater
              predictability for permitting timelines and processes provides benefits all along
              the supply chain by helping to ensure projects stay on schedule.
                                                                                                    I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 9
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                            Executive summary
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           6. Maximise existing grid infrastructure: Optimising the use of existing grid
              infrastructure through digital technologies enhances efficiency and maximises
              the use of existing assets, providing a safety valve for networks and supply
              chains. Solutions such as real-time monitoring and operational performance
              improvements allow transmission lines to function more effectively, alleviating
              the pressure on some new infrastructure investments. Additionally,
              performance-based regulation drives the development and adoption of digital
              technologies, fostering innovation and operational efficiency.

           7. Promote diverse, resilient and sustainable supply chains: The supply of
              certain grid components is concentrated among few top-tier suppliers,
              hindering diversification, particularly in emerging and developing economies.
              Governments can support this by pooling procurement needs and
              collaborating with local or second-tier suppliers.

           8. Ensure a skilled workforce: The demand for skilled workers is increasing
              across the supply chain. Building a strong talent pipeline and integrating digital
              skills into training are essential. Skilled labour is key to develop infrastructure
              projects and expanding manufacturing. Governments and industry
              stakeholders need to work together to align skills development with all stages
              of transmission projects, from design to construction and maintenance.




                                                                                                     I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 10
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                                   Chapter 1: Grids in the Age of Electricity
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges




Chapter 1: Grids in the
Age of Electricity

            Grid infrastructure is the backbone of a reliable, clean and interconnected energy
            system. As electricity becomes ever more central to modern economies,
            strengthening grids is essential to meet growing demand and adapt to evolving
            needs, while ensuring long-term security in an affordable manner. Integrating
            clean energy into the grid and meeting new demand require a robust and
            expanded transmission network to connect generation sources and balance
            supply and demand across regions. Additionally, expansion in grid infrastructure
            is essential to achieve universal access to electricity.

            Efforts to expand and modernise grids require an integrated and strategic
            approach to the entire supply chain, from the manufacturing of key components to
            the deployment of infrastructure. Investments and policies need to align across
            different parts of the supply chain to avoid bottlenecks that can impede progress
            towards a safer and more sustainable electricity system.


Transmission grids as the key to clean,
electrified and secure energy systems
            Global electricity demand has been growing at twice the rate of overall energy
            demand over the last decade and this is set to accelerate further in the years
            ahead, adding the equivalent of Japan’s demand to global electricity use each
            year in the IEA’s Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS). This growth rises even more
            quickly in scenarios that meet national and global net zero goals. It is driven by a
            rise in conventional uses, notably for cooling in emerging market and developing
            economies (EMDE), and by new sources of demand linked to electrification in
            transport and heating and rapid expansion of data centres. The latest IEA near-
            term forecast is for global electricity consumption grow at close to 4% annually
            through 2027. Electricity now accounts for around 20% of the world’s total final
            energy consumption and this continues to rise in all IEA scenarios 1.

            Governments worldwide are adopting policies to accelerate electrification,
            particularly in advanced economies and the People’s Republic of China (hereafter
            “China”). Heat pumps are outselling fossil fuel-based heating systems in many



1
  Electricity is highly efficient at the point of use, so its share in providing useful energy to consumers is higher than its share
in total final energy consumption.
                                                                                                                                       I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                            PAGE | 11
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                               Chapter 1: Grids in the Age of Electricity
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



              parts of the world. Electric cars now account for one in five of total car sales. Sales
              of electric two- and three-wheelers are growing fast in many EMDE, as are electric
              buses 2.

              Renewable energy now accounts for around a third of global electricity supply,
              and this share is expected to keep growing. Investment in renewable energy has
              more than doubled over the past decade, led by solar PV which now accounts for
              more investment that all the other sources of generation combined. Record-low
              solar PV and battery prices, driven by expanding global manufacturing capacity,
              especially in China, have further accelerated deployment. Grid infrastructure is
              key to integrating renewables, but it has struggled to keep up with this growth.
              This mismatch has led to delays in project deployment, increased financial
              uncertainty, and potential setbacks in the clean energy transition. In 2024, the IEA
              tracked 1 650 GW of solar and wind projects in advanced stages of development
              that are still awaiting grid connections, a major missed opportunity to accelerate
              the transformation of the electricity sector.

              As the deployment of renewable energy accelerates, modernising grids and
              expanding transmission networks will continue to be essential. Many solar PV
              projects and offshore wind farms are often located far from key demand centres
              like cities and industrial hubs. Without significant grid expansion, these resources
              cannot be fully and cost-effectively harnessed. Strategic investments in
              transmission interconnectors also help balance supply and demand across
              regions, improving electricity market stability and reducing price volatility. Beyond
              expanding physical infrastructure, better coordination between generation,
              storage, and demand response is essential to manage variability in electricity
              supply and maintaining price stability. Without these measures, increasing grid
              congestion and curtailment of renewables could require additional backup
              capacity, driving up overall system costs.


The pressing need to modernise aging
infrastructure while driving expansion
              Over the past decade, approximately 1.5 million km of transmission lines have
              been constructed worldwide, of which EMDE account for nearly 90%. This rapid
              expansion is driven by rising electricity demand, accompanied by efforts to
              improve energy access. The variable nature of wind and solar, combined with the
              need to enhance energy security, also spurred the development of extensive
              transmission infrastructure and, in many cases, cross-border interconnections.




2
    India, for example, recently approved a scheme supporting the rollout of 38 000 electric buses between 2025 and 2029.
                                                                                                                                 I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                          PAGE | 12
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                       Chapter 1: Grids in the Age of Electricity
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           More than one-third of the global transmission grid expansion over the last decade
           took place in China. China constructed more than 500 000 km of lines, including
           ultra-high-voltage (UHV) connections that link renewable energy-rich northern and
           western provinces to eastern demand centres. Over the same period, India added
           nearly 180 000 km of transmission lines, a 70% increase, and Brazil expanded its
           grid by more than 100 000 km, a 50% expansion.

           Advanced economies have seen a more gradual expansion of their transmission
           networks, with a 9% increase in the past decade, about 130 000 km of new lines.
           This reflects the relative maturity of electricity markets and infrastructure in these
           economies, along with higher population densities in countries such as Japan and
           Korea that reduce the need for extensive grid expansion. This also means that the
           average age of grid infrastructure in advanced economies is higher than in EMDE.


Share of transmission length by age by country/region, 2023
    100%
                                                                                         Less than 10 years
                                                                                         Between 10 and 20 years
     80%
                                                                                         Above 20 years

     60%


     40%


     20%


      0%




                                                                                                     IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: Other EMDE = emerging market and developing economies other than China.
Source: IEA analysis based on Global Transmission.



           As a result of these differences, there is a greater emphasis in advanced
           economies on the replacement and modernisation of ageing transmission lines to
           ensure reliability, to accommodate digital solutions, and to integrate renewable
           energy sources effectively. Meanwhile, investment strategies in EMDE are more
           focused on expanding transmission networks to meet growing electricity demand
           and to ensure access.

           Access to electricity remains a crucial indicator of economic and social progress,
           and grid infrastructure is a cornerstone of this effort. In 2023, the number of people
           without electricity access saw a decline, reversing a period of stagnation where
           population growth had outpaced new connections. Preliminary data for 2024
           suggests continued improvements in this trend. While regions such as developing
           Asia and Latin America are close to universal access to electricity, substantial
                                                                                                                         I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                    PAGE | 13
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                              Chapter 1: Grids in the Age of Electricity
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



                  gaps persist in many countries in sub-Saharan Africa. This region accounts for
                  around 80% of people without electricity access, but there has been a positive
                  recent acceleration in grid connections, with over 6.5 million new connections
                  established in 2023, a 60% increase from 2021. Strengthening grid infrastructure,
                  in conjunction with scalable solutions such as mini-grids and stand-alone systems,
                  is critical to support broader social and economic development goals.


The role of transmission in clean energy
transitions
                  Expanding and modernising grids is a key component of electricity security in each
                  of the IEA scenarios. Adequate electricity transmission networks have strategic
                  significance in outlooks that meet national and global climate goals. In both the
                  Announced Pledges Scenario (APS) and the Net Zero Emissions by 2050 (NZE)
                  Scenario, advanced economies nearly double their transmission capacity to 2050,
                  while EMDE triples theirs. Beyond capacity expansion, replacement and
                  modernisation of ageing infrastructure requires substantial investment.


Length of transmission lines by scenario, 2023-2025
                       Stated Policies Scenario      Announced Pledges Scenario           Net Zero Scenario


              15 000
Thousand km




              10 000



               5 000



                  0
                   2023   2030      2040      2050   2023   2030     2040   2050   2023    2030       2040       2050

                            Advanced economies                      China                   Other EMDE

                                                                                                             IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: Other EMDE = emerging market and developing economies other than China.



                  In the APS, advanced economies and China need to develop and/or replace
                  transmission lines totalling 120% of their current length by 2035. Meanwhile, other
                  EMDE need to develop and/or replace transmission lines equivalent to 100% of
                  their current length over the same period.

                  Meeting these goals will require proactive planning and timely increases in
                  investment, with strong consequences for demand for cables and transformers. In
                  advanced economies, approximately 60 000 km of transmission lines are replaced
                  annually in the APS, equating to about 4% of the current grid each year through
                                                                                                                                I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                             PAGE | 14
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                                           Chapter 1: Grids in the Age of Electricity
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



                to 2040. By that year, the advanced economies construct 1.8 million kilometres of
                new lines while replacing an additional 970 000 km. In contrast, EMDE face a
                more expansion-driven challenge, with a need to add 2.3 million kilometres of new
                lines and replace 425 000 km by 2040. This replacement activity averages around
                2% of the current grid annually but rises steadily in the years to 2040 in the APS.


Average annual capacity additions and replacement per region in the Announced
Pledges and Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenarios, 2023-2040
                               Cable lines                                                        Transformers


                  2023                                                                  2023
economies




                                                                      economies
Advanced




                                                                      Advanced
            2024-40 APS                                                           2024-40 APS


                  2023                                                                  2023
                                                                         EMDE
    EMDE




            2024-40 APS                                                           2024-40 APS


                             100    200      300    400       500                                       0.5        1.0        1.5
                          Thousand km                                                           TW

                                          Capacity addition         Replacements         NZE 2024-2040

                                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: NZE = Net Zero by 2050 Scenario.



                In the APS, global transformer capacity is projected to reach 28 terawatts (TW) by
                2040, with new capacity required across all types of economy, and the pace of
                expansion is even faster in the NZE Scenario. Advanced economies face greater
                near-term challenges to replace older transformers because of the age of their
                current infrastructure. In the APS, advanced economies need to replace an
                average of 8% of their installed capacity annually over the next 15 years, while the
                replacement rate for the EMDE is considerably lower at 3% per year.


Regional plans and investment efforts are stepping up
                Investments in transmission picked up globally in 2023, but in most cases they
                remain a long way from the levels that are needed. Europe, the United States,
                China, India, and parts of Latin America are leading the way in spending on
                transmission, but there is a strong regional imbalance in investment patterns, with
                advanced economies and China accounting for about 80% of the global total.
                Global investment in power transmission grew by 10% in 2023 reaching USD 140
                billion. Looking forward, global efforts need to increase sharply in all scenarios,
                and to more than double by the 2030s in scenarios that meet national and global
                climate goals.
                                                                                                                                             I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                                PAGE | 15
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                       Chapter 1: Grids in the Age of Electricity
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



Average annual investment in transmission by region and scenario, 2023-2050
                                         STEPS                  APS                  NZE
                     300                                                                              Other EMDE
Billion USD (2023)




                     250
                                                                                                      China

                     200
                                                                                                      Advanced
                                                                                                      economies
                     150


                     100


                     50


                       0
                           2023       2030-40 2040-50     2030-40 2040-50      2030-40 2040-50


                                                                                                     IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: STEPS = Stated Policies Scenario; APS = Announced Pledges Scenario; NZE = Net Zero by 2050 Scenario. Other
EMDE = emerging market and developing economies other than China.



                      Among the advanced economies, many governments have introduced policies to
                      accelerate transmission investment, with some extending their planning horizons
                      and setting clear renewable energy targets. Examples include the European
                      Union’s Grid Action Plan, aims to double cross-border transmission capacity. In
                      the United States, the Department of Energy has developed a USD 2.5 billion
                      Transmission Facilitation Program to help projects in their final stages of approval,
                      as part of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.

                      In 2023, China invested around USD 40 billion in high-voltage transmission and
                      remains committed to expanding its ultra-high-voltage (UHV) network under the
                      14th Five-Year Plan, with 38 UHV lines already operational in 2024.

                      For Other EMDE, the investment challenge is much bigger. The APS requires a
                      tripling in current investment levels on average in the next decade and the NZE
                      Scenario requires a quadrupling. Some countries such as India and Brazil have
                      shown substantial progress in investing in transmission infrastructure and there
                      are plans elsewhere to expand infrastructure, such as the ASEAN Power Grid
                      initiative. However, in aggregate, transmission investments in EMDE are far below
                      the levels that will be needed to support national energy and climate objectives.
                                                                                                                         I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                        PAGE | 16
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                                Chapter 1: Grids in the Age of Electricity
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



Planned transmission investments and time horizons in selected countries and regions

         Viet Nam                USD 15 billion
            China       USD 205 billion
             India                         USD 110 billion
         California                         USD 7 billion
            Spain         USD 8 billion
           France                                           USD 104 billion
  United Kingdom                             USD 49 billion
             Brazil                            USD 21 billion
      South Africa                                USD 6 billion

                 2020               2025               2030                   2035       2040              2045

                                                                                       Time horizon

                                                                                                              IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Source: Viet Nam, Power Development Plan 8; China, 14 Five-Year Plan; India, National Electricity Plan; California, 2023-
                                                               th

2024 transmission plan; Spain, Transmission Grid Development Plan 2021-2023; France, Ten-year network development
plan; United Kingdom, RIIO-T3 Business Plan; Brazil, Plano Decenal de Expansão de Energia 2034; South Africa,
Transmission Development Plan.



            In 2024, India released its National Electricity Plan, outlining the transmission
            required to achieve 500 GW of installed renewable energy capacity by 2030 and
            600 GW by 2032. The plan also addresses cross-border interconnections, energy
            storage requirements and substation capacity expansions. Brazil more than
            doubled its transmission infrastructure investments in 2023 and auctioned a
            record 10 500 km, where China State Grid won the biggest lot.

            National investment plans are increasingly recognising the role of transmission
            infrastructure in achieving clean energy goals. Governments are extending their
            focus and planning horizons to ensure transmission networks are developed in
            alignment with long-term energy transition objectives.


A growing trend towards developing higher-voltage
transmission lines
            The global shift to renewable resources of power generation is driving unprecedented
            investment in high-voltage and ultra-high-voltage (UHV) transmission infrastructure,
            with systems adopting solutions to facilitate long-distance power transfer. Direct
            current (DC) transmission is also gaining momentum as it is well-suited for long-
            distance transmission. The surge of offshore wind power generation has boosted the
            need for high-voltage subsea cables, especially in Europe.

            The global length of high-voltage direct current (HVDC) lines nearly tripled
            between 2010 and 2021, exceeding 100 000 km. This reflects an expansion of
            long-distance overhead lines in China and Brazil, as well as underground and
            subsea cables in Europe.
                                                                                                                                  I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                              PAGE | 17
Building the Future Transmission Grid                          Chapter 1: Grids in the Age of Electricity
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           China leads the way in ultra-high-voltage direct current (UHVDC) technology. It
           has announced over USD 200 billion to be invested in transmission lines by 2025.
           The 800kV Gansu-Zhejiang DC line started construction in 2024 and is designed
           to transmit around 4 GW of renewable energy yearly, costing nearly USD 5 billion.
           China accounted for nearly 50% of the global HVDC line length in 2021.

           Brazil has outlined plans for a major UHVDC power transmission project to
           transport clean energy from the northeast to the central part of the country, which
           is expected to be operational by 2029. The State Grid in China, which was the
           successful bidder on the largest-ever infrastructure transmission auction in Brazil
           in 2023, will handle the construction.

           India also plans to expand its HVDC infrastructure, as outlined in the latest
           National Electricity Plan for Transmission, which includes linking 33 GW through
           HVDC systems between 2023 and 2032. In 2024 India commissioned a 765 kV
           line to transmit around 3 GW from Khavada to Bhuj. Another major project
           scheduled to be commissioned by the end 2026, is the 800 kV HVDC line to conect
           Gujarat and Maharashtra, evacuating power from a planned renewable energy
           zone of up to 8 GW.

           In Europe, the North Sea is home to several key DC subsea cables for electricity
           transmission, including the 525 kV Viking Link and the 515 kV North Sea Link,
           each spanning over 700 km. Recently, TenneT, a European electricity
           transmission system operator, opened a 2 GW programme for 525 kV DC offshore
           cable.




                                                                                                            I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 18
Building the Future Transmission Grid                        Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges




Chapter 2: Transmission supply
chains under strain

The surge in global demand for transmission
capacity is shaping the supply chain
landscape
           Growth in global demand for transmission capacity, driven by simultaneous
           expansion plans in many regions, is putting pressure on supply chains and the
           availability of cables, materials and critical electrical components. Manufacturers
           are experiencing skyrocketing demand, leading to higher prices, longer
           procurement lead times, and record-breaking order backlogs.

           The market is reacting to this surge in demand and many manufacturers have
           announced plans to scale up production. Yet, substantial challenges remain. The
           industry’s technical complexity, especially for some components, continues to be
           a challenge. High-voltage systems, long-distance subsea cables, and DC
           converters require highly customised solutions to meet the increasingly
           sophisticated needs of modern transmission projects. While the market has
           responded positively, scaling up manufacturing capacity takes time and
           component manufacturers also have experience of fluctuating demand patterns
           and periods of lower returns or fewer orders in the past. This highlights the
           importance of long-time visibility on demand in order to bolster confidence in future
           equipment and component needs and to help mitigate the risks associated with
           expanding manufacturing facilities.


Cable manufacturers are scaling up production
           There are several manufacturers of alternating current (AC) and DC transmission
           cables, with production facilities spread across different countries. While the
           medium-voltage cable market is relatively standardised, higher-voltage cables,
           particularly those for long-distance transmission and subsea projects, require
           greater customisation. This includes tailoring insulation, environmental resilience,
           and protective features to meet the specific demands of each application.

           The location of these factories is a critical factor in cable manufacturing, as
           transportation requires logistical efforts especially for submarine or high-voltage and
           impacts the price. The cable market generally expands through the establishment
                                                                                                                  I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 19
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           of new subsidiaries in strategically selected locations within advanced economies,
           whereas EMDE predominantly drive growth by increasing trade.

           Prominent players in the cable industry include Prysmian (Italy), Nexans (France)
           and Furukawa Electric (Japan) which collectively account for half of the top ten
           global players by revenue. While these manufacturers maintain extensive global
           operations, distinct regional patterns emerge in their market presence. Sumitomo
           Electric (Japan) and LS Cable & System (Korea) are prominent in the Asia-Pacific
           region, benefiting from their proximity to this high-demand market. Prysmian has
           cultivated a significant presence across the United States and Europe, and
           Nexans and Prysmian are key suppliers in Africa.


Market share by revenue for the top ten cable manufacturers, 2023


                                                                                 Prysmian
                                                 2%
                                            4%                                   Nexans
                                       7%
                                                        25%                      Furukawa Electric

                                  9%                                             Hengtong
                                                                                 Sumitomo Electric

                                 9%                                              ZTT
                                                            12%                  Fujikura
                                    10%                                          LS Cable & System

                                            10%       12%                        NKT
                                                                                 Hellenic Cables



                                                                                                       IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: Top ten cable manufacturers account for around 50% of the global market.
Source: IEA analysis based on S&P Capital IQ.



           Many of these manufacturers are investing in capacity expansions in response to
           the recent uptick in demand. Building a factory takes around three to four years,
           and it requires not only capital but skilled labour to do so, which can be a
           bottleneck. The visibility and credibility of national and regional transmission
           planning, and its translation to component demand, is vital to underpin investment
           decisions in new or existing manufacturing capacities.

           Prysmian has announced a USD 2 billion investment in capacity expansion
           through 2027, including doubling production of 525 kV submarine cables and 400
           kV AC cables by 2026. Nexans has announced a USD 109 million investment for
           a new medium-voltage cable plant in partnership with the Moroccan government,
           set to be operational by 2026. Additionally, the company is investing USD 98
           million to meet the growing demand for offshore cables in Europe, as well as
           building a new cable laying vessel worth over USD 205 million. NKT (Denmark)
                                                                                                                          I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                       PAGE | 20
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                   Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



                      also announced plans to build more high-voltage capability by investing over
                      USD 1 billion between 2023 and 2026.

                      Investment incentives can play a key role in supporting and accelerating these
                      expansion efforts. In the United States, for example, cable manufacturers are
                      planning to leverage the incentives in the Inflation Reduction Act to expand their
                      production capacity. Hellenic Cables secured tax credits to support the
                      development of a new cable manufacturing facility in Maryland in the United
                      States. Similarly, LS Cable & System will benefit from investment tax credits for
                      its planned submarine cable manufacturing plant in the United States, expected
                      to begin operations in 2027.


Revenue and return on capital for top ten cable manufacturers, 2018-2023
                     80                                                                           8%
Billion USD (2023)




                                                                                                               Revenue


                     60                                                                           6%           Return on
                                                                                                               capital


                     40                                                                           4%



                     20                                                                           2%



                      0
                           2018      2019        2020      2021           2022         2023

                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: Top ten cable manufacturers based on fiscal year 2023 revenues.
Source: IEA analysis based on S&P Capital IQ, Annual reports.



                      Profitability in the cable manufacturing sector has shown notable improvements
                      over the past three years, with the average return on capital reaching an average
                      of 6.8% for the top ten global players in 2023. The surge in demand has created
                      an opportunity for manufacturers to sustain and enhance these returns. As the
                      market expands rapidly, companies are under increasing scrutiny to deliver strong
                      performance and capitalise on growth while managing rising operational and
                      supply chain challenges, as well as financing production expansions.


Electrical equipment manufacturers are also seeking
growth with strategic investments
                      Transformer manufacturing is a highly customised process, with designs specifically
                      tailored to meet the unique requirements of each project. Key factors such as grid
                      configuration, operational load, and space constraints significantly influence the
                      design, to ensure that transformers are optimised for their intended applications.
                                                                                                                             I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                        PAGE | 21
Building the Future Transmission Grid                        Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           These components are critical to maintaining the reliability and stability of electrical
           networks. The production of power transformers requires advanced and specialised
           facilities, including drying ovens and high-power testing laboratories, which reflects
           the technical complexity of the manufacturing process. Given the customised nature
           of transformers, close collaboration between manufacturers and buyers is essential
           to ensure precise alignment with project requirements. The bespoke nature and
           critical importance of electrical components drive the market's reliance on long-
           standing buyer-supplier relationships.

           The global market for transmission system electrical equipment is experiencing
           significant growth, driven by surging demand for transformers and high-voltage
           products. India provides an illustration as represented by two leading
           manufacturers, Indo Tech Transformers and Transformers & Rectifiers India Ltd,
           who have experienced strong revenue growth and record-high stock prices.

           Today, order books in the transformer industry are full and industry leaders are
           looking at expanding manufacturing capacity in response. Some manufacturers
           have expressed uncertainty about the extent of future demand, underscoring that
           expansion requires strong, long-term visibility on orders to build confidence that
           new capacity will be utilised.

           Hitachi announced a major investment of USD 1.5 billion in 2024 to ramp up its global
           transformer manufacturing capacity. This expansion will include facilities in Germany,
           China, Viet Nam, Australia, Brazil, and various locations across the United States. HD
           Hyundai Electric plans to invest around USD 270 million to expand production
           capacity by 30%, in the United States and South Korea by early 2026. Schneider
           Electric, recognising the need for increased production capacity, has committed to
           investing USD 140 million in the United States, which will also involve hiring around
           750 new skilled workers to support its expanded operations. In India, Toshiba is
           expanding its manufacturing capacity by 50% by 2027 with a USD 60 million
           investment. Turkish company Astor plans to establish factories in Spain and the
           United States, with the United States serving as the primary export market for Turkish
           power transformers. Siemens Energy announced in 2024 its first power transformer
           manufacturing facility in the United States, worth USD 150 million.

           The expansion of HVDC infrastructure has also increased the demand for highly
           specialised components such as converters and circuit breakers, both of which
           are critical to the operation and reliability of HVDC systems. Converters facilitate
           the transition between DC and AC systems, playing a central role in addressing
           current and future HVDC needs. Circuit breakers, essential for protecting HVDC
           systems from overloads and faults, are equally critical and face similar market
           tightness due to their complex manufacturing processes.

           Supply chain constraints for semiconductors are another challenge. High-power
           semiconductors, vital for HVDC converter valves and circuit breakers, have
                                                                                                                  I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 22
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                       Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



                          experienced shortages driven by market volatility. Materials like silicon, steel,
                          aluminium, copper, and nickel are also critical to manufacturing various
                          components. The anticipated surge in HVDC infrastructure demand over the next
                          decade risks exacerbating these supply chain pressures, emphasizing the need
                          for strategic planning to address material and workforce shortages.



       Rising demand boosts global power transformer trade
       Trade plays an increasingly important role in the global power transformer market.
       Global trade in power transformers was worth USD 13.5 billion in 2023 and
       between 2018 and 2023, the trade value for exports from the top four exporting
       countries rose by 80%. China, Korea, Türkiye and Italy accounted for 50% of total
       global trade in 2023, and China alone for one-quarter.

       Top 5 power transformer exporters by value, 2023
                          2 000
                                                                                                               Importers
     Million USD (2023)




                                                                                                                 Others
                          1 500
                                                                                                                 United States

                                                                                                                 Middle East
                          1 000
                                                                                                                 Other Africa

                                                                                                                 Europe
                            500
                                                                                                                 Eurasia

                                                                                                                 Asia Pacific


                                     China         Korea               Türkiye              Italy
                                                           Exporters

                                                                                                               IEA. CC BY 4.0.
       Note: Power transformers exceeding 10 MVA. Countries and regions within each bar represent importers.
       Source: IEA analysis based on UN Comtrade (2024).

       On the import side, both the United States and Europe have more than doubled
       their trade value for power transformers since 2018. The United States primarily
       sources transformers from Mexico, Europe, and Korea. Latin America relies on
       China for nearly two-thirds of its imports.
       Africa has also seen a notable increase in imports, rising by 20% since 2018, with
       key suppliers including China, Germany, India and Türkiye. These trends
       underscore the evolving dynamics of global power transformer trade, shaped by
       regional demand patterns and shifting supply chains.
                                                                                                                                 I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                           PAGE | 23
Building the Future Transmission Grid                        Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges




Increasing prices for key components
           The increase in transmission component costs reflects several key drivers. Strong
           global electricity demand growth is the key underlying element, accompanied on
           the supply side by the rise of wind and solar PV as sources of generation. In
           addition, some specific supply chain constraints have added to the pressure,
           including disruptions in global logistics, tight markets for materials, and skills
           shortages for manufacturing and installation. Inflation and rising energy costs in
           some markets have also contributed to rising prices, with production and logistical
           expenses exacerbated after Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine.

           Among raw materials, the volatility in the costs of copper and aluminium, which
           peaked in early 2022, and the price of grain oriented electrical steel (GOES), which
           doubled between 2021 and 2023, have contributed to the cost surge in
           transmission components. All these factors have contributed to the cost surge in
           transmission components.


Material prices for transmission components are feeding
through into higher costs
           Rising demand for transmission infrastructure has brought with it a surge in material
           requirements. Copper, steel, GOES and aluminium are among the key materials
           directly affected by this growing need. These raw materials are not only essential for
           manufacturing but also represent a significant portion of costs. As a result, fluctuations
           in material prices have a substantial influence on the overall cost of transmission line
           projects, making resource availability and pricing pivotal to future grid development.

           In the case of large power transformers, raw material suppliers for GOES, copper
           wire and insulating materials have a significant influence on the transformers final
           price. The GOES used in the transformer core represents more than 20% of the
           transformer’s total cost; adding in other materials needed for the manufacture of
           transformers, including copper, aluminium and insulating materials, can bring the
           share of materials in total cost to more than 50%.

           Copper and aluminium are the primary materials used in the production of cables
           and power lines. Due to its superior conductivity-to-weight ratio compared with
           copper, aluminium is typically used for overhead power lines and is increasingly
           utilised for underground and subsea transmission cables. Copper, on the other
           hand, is predominantly employed in underground and subsea applications.

           In a high-voltage overhead line, aluminium accounts for approximately 18% of the
           total composition, with the remaining portion comprising the steel poles. For
           cables, copper makes up about 60% of the total weight, while the rest consists of
           insulation materials. In the case of aluminium cables, aluminium can account for
           up to 80% of the total weight.
                                                                                                                  I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 24
Building the Future Transmission Grid                             Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



Price index for key materials: GOES, copper and aluminium, 2021-2025
Price index




              200
                                                                                                        GOES


                                                                                                        Aluminium

              100                                                                                       Copper




                2021                2022             2023              2024                  2025

                                                                                                    IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Source: IEA analysis based on data from Bloomberg, T&D Europe, Federal Reserve Economic Data.



                    GOES prices have doubled between 2021 and mid-2023. This price increase is
                    primarily due to the surging demand for transformers, coupled with growing
                    demand in other applications, such as EV charging stations. The production of
                    non-oriented electrical steel (NOES) used for electric motors in EVs, has
                    contributed to the issue, as some manufacturers have shifted focus away from
                    GOES production to meet NOES demand. China continues to be the main
                    manufacturer, accounting for around a third of global production.

                    Copper prices experienced an increase in 2021 and early 2022. However, from
                    2021 to 2023, supply grew at a faster pace than demand, leading to a decline and
                    stabilisation of prices. Aluminium experienced similar price trends, peaking in
                    2021 due to pandemic-related disruptions and rising electricity costs. As of 2025,
                    aluminium prices are around one-third higher than in 2021.


Rising global price index for cables and power
transformers
                    Based on a survey conducted by the IEA, high demand for cables and power lines
                    has substantially driven up prices. Prices for cables nearly doubled in the past five
                    years, despite a plateau in 2022 as the market stabilised following earlier supply
                    chain disruptions and high inventory levels built up in response to those
                    disruptions. Post-2022, as the market recovered, raw material prices rebounded,
                    and demand surged for high-voltage cables driven by major infrastructure projects
                    and power grid upgrades.
                                                                                                                       I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                      PAGE | 25
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                         Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



Power transformer and cables price index in real terms (2018 USD), 2018-2024
                         250
Price index (2018 USD)




                         200


                         150


                         100


                          50



                           2018                      2020                              2022                              2024
                                                            Cable         Power Transformer

                                                                                                                IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: Analysis based on cable auctions >320 kV (excluding submarine) and IEA survey for underground cables.
Source: IEA Survey 2024.



                           Our survey also reveals a sharp increase in the price of power transformers since
                           2022, although prices for individual units are highly dependent on their complexity
                           and capacity, with values varying widely according to the customised design. This
                           variability makes it difficult to establish a standard price, as each project has its
                           own unique requirements. In some cases, transformer prices have surged to as
                           much as 2.6 times their pre-pandemic levels, in real terms. Similarly, a transformer
                           project in a region with challenging infrastructure or environmental conditions may
                           see costs escalate due to the added complexity of installation and maintenance.
                           These price increases are creating additional pressure on already stretched
                           supply chains and investment plans for transmission infrastructure.

Spread of power transformer price index, 2019-2024
                         300
Price index (2018 USD)




                                                                                                                   Median
                         250


                         200


                         150


                         100


                         50



                               2019      2020      2021        2022          2023         2024

                                                                                                                IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: 2018 = 100
Source: Analysis based on IEA Survey 2024.
                                                                                                                                   I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                              PAGE | 26
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           Looking ahead, market sentiment suggests that prices are expected to continue
           to rise in 2025. High demand, combined with persistent inflationary pressures and
           a shortage of skilled construction labour, is likely to drive up labour and overall
           costs.


Rising lead times and record-high order
backlogs
           Lead times for cables have increased significantly, now extending up to two or
           three years depending on the complexity of the project, compared to just one or
           two years a few years ago. This increase is largely driven by high demand and
           more complex projects, such as long-distance HVDC cables or submarine
           installations, which have put additional strain on procurement timelines. Leading
           manufacturers in advanced economies have already committed their production
           capacity through 2029. For example since March 2023, NKT has confirmed high-
           voltage contract awards and booking commitments of more than USD 5 billion.
           This situation is not expected to change in the immediate future. New
           manufacturing facilities for cables are not expected to be operational until 2026
           and building a new manufacturing facility typically takes around three to four years.


Average lead time for large power transformers, 2021-2024
         300
Weeks




                                                 x 1.8                                                 Lead time
         200


                                                                                                       Average
                                                                                                       production time
         100




                                2021-22                                  2023-24

                                                                                                       IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Source: Analysis based on IEA Survey 2024.



           The situation in the transformer market is similar, with lead times having almost
           doubled on average over the past two to three years according to the IEA Survey
           (2024). Manufacturers have reported a record backlog of orders in 2024, with
           orders measured in USD increasing by one-third in just one year. HD Hyundai
           Electric and Hyosung Heavy Industries, two of Korea's largest transformer
           manufacturers, have reported a combined order backlog exceeding USD 10 billion
           by the end of the third quarter, reflecting a one-third increase year-on-year.
                                                                                                                          I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                         PAGE | 27
Building the Future Transmission Grid                               Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



               Similarly, Končar Group, a prominent manufacturer in Croatia, has reached an
               order backlog of USD 2 billion, with three-quarters of its new contracts dedicated
               to export markets, indicating both strong international demand and an increasingly
               competitive global market for transformers. Hitachi Energy, one of the largest
               players in the sector, has seen its order backlog more than triple in the past four
               years, now surpassing USD 30 billion. This rapid growth in backlogs highlights the
               surge in market demand, leaving manufacturers struggling to keep up with the
               pace of new orders.


Increase in power transformer order backlog in selected manufacturing companies,
2020-2024
             45%
YoY growth




             30%



             15%



              0%
                       2020                2021             2022               2023                2024


             -15%


                                                                                                      IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: YoY = year-on-year. Based on order backlogs of Hitachi Energy, Schneider Electric, Siemens Energy, GE Vernova



               However, while lead time increases have affected project timelines and costs, the
               primary cause of delays in transmission projects remains permitting, particularly
               in advanced economies. In regions like Europe and the United States, it typically
               takes an average of 8 years to develop an extra-high-voltage line, compared to
               just 3 years in India and 1.5 years in China.


Facing the procurement challenges
               A tight market for transmission components has several important implications, and
               one of the most notable is the shift in the balance of negotiation power. Buyers, who
               once had the option to choose between multiple suppliers based on price and
               quality, are now competing for limited production slots. In many cases, there is only
               one supplier available, and companies often need to negotiate years in advance to
               secure their needs. In Europe and the United States, buyers are booking a
               manufacturing slot rather than the traditional model of buying material for delivery.
                                                                                                                         I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                      PAGE | 28
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                      Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           In response to these market conditions, buyers are increasingly turning to long-
           term framework agreements, which provide greater stability for procurement and
           offer manufacturers better visibility, allowing them to expand production capacity
           with more certainty. This is a trend especially seen in the European context, as
           contracts in the United States are generally still project based.

           Framework agreements have typically been used for smaller equipment with two
           to three-year terms, but they are now being extended to larger equipment and
           longer timeframes, typically up to five years. These agreements help secure
           commitments and generally include both fixed and variable price components, the
           latter commonly indexed to inflation or raw material prices.

           There are many examples of framework agreements. Terna for example, awarded
           a USD 1.75 billion contract in 2021 to design, supply and commission 1 500 km of
           submarine cable. TenneT awarded USD 5.7 billion of framework agreements with
           several cable suppliers for 7 000 km of HVDC projects. Similarly, RTE entered into
           contracts with five European suppliers to secure underground cable supplies for
           its projects through 2028, with a total value of approximately USD 1 billion.

           There are also long-term agreements happening for power transformers, as
           Hitachi Energy signed an 8 year framework agreement with the Swedish TSO,
           with deliveries planned from 2027 to 2032.

           National grid has announced the development of an Advanced Procurement
           Mechanism as part of their latest Transmission Business Plan in December 2024,
           aiming to enable larger and longer commitments. They have also procured over
           14 000 kilometres of cable as part as a long term strategy to serve HVDC large
           projects.


Cable and power transformer procurement timeline, 2024



              Cable




  Power transformer




                                                     1                                 2                              3
                  Years

                       Procurement phase         Technical specification       Manufacturing and delivery

                                                                                                             IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Source: Analysis based on IEA Survey 2024.
                                                                                                                                I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                         PAGE | 29
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                 Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           Procurement timelines can differ significantly depending on the regulatory framework
           and the duration of the contract. In some regions, navigating regulatory changes and
           compliance requirements can introduce additional challenges, potentially affecting
           project schedules. Long-term contracts often require more time to finalise due to their
           complexity and scope. Furthermore, TSOs must work within their local regulatory
           environments, which may add layers of intricacy to the procurement process.




      Emergence of non-traditional buyers in the market
      The procurement processes for electrical components for TSOs and industrial
      buyers differ significantly, driven by differences in project scope, regulatory
      requirements, and timelines. While industrial buyers typically procure lower-
      voltage components for smaller applications, they often rely on the same suppliers
      as TSOs, increasing competition in the market.

      Procurement process: TSOs vs Industrial buyers

                                                       TSO                           Industrial buyer
             Scale and                              Large-scale                      Smaller-scale
           customisation                         Highly customised                  More standardised
            Procurement                     Long-term frameworks                     Shorter contracts
              strategy                       Competitive tenders                      More flexibility

              Regulation                          Strict regulation                     More flexible


      The surge of energy demand from data centres, driven by the increasing reliance
      on cloud computing and digital infrastructure, also increases competition for critical
      electrical components. Data centres require substantial electrical infrastructure,
      including high-capacity power transformers and specialised cables. Recently,
      Virginia Transformer (United States) secured multiple contracts to supply
      transformers for data centres, with deliveries scheduled between 2026 and 2027.
      As energy demand from data centres continues to rise, such contracts are
      expected to become increasingly common in the market.




The hurdle of offshore and submarine
transmission lines
           Demand for submarine cables and HVDC systems is rising rapidly, driven by the
           rapid expansion of offshore renewable energy projects, particularly wind farms.
           Europe, the United States and China are at the forefront of these developments.
                                                                                                                           I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                       PAGE | 30
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                  Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



                          In Europe, the European Network of Transmission System Operators for
                          Electricity (ENTSO-E) estimates that around USD 420 billion will need to be
                          invested in offshore transmission assets. This includes the development of
                          54 000 km of transmission lines across European markets by 2050.

                          The United States offshore wind generation market is currently facing uncertainty,
                          as leasing has been paused. While the future of offshore generation remains
                          unclear, several significant projects are still in the construction phase.

                          HVDC technology has become critical in connecting offshore wind farms to
                          power grids and facilitating long-distance interconnections. Offshore plants are
                          becoming larger and are being built further from the coast, requiring more
                          advanced and specialised infrastructure. The average auction price for
                          offshore wind projects has doubled from 2019 to 2024, underscoring the
                          growing complexity and costs associated with these ventures. Furthermore,
                          contracts signed in auctions are increasingly more expensive also
                          underscoring higher prices as well as higher project complexity.

                          China has emerged as a global leader in HVDC development, and its strategic
                          investment in HVDC technology has allowed it to sidestep many of the supply
                          constraints facing other regions. Cable manufacturers in China primarily cater to
                          domestic demand, ensuring adequate supply for its ambitious renewable energy
                          projects. This contrasts sharply with the situation in Europe and the United States,
                          where limited production capacity and surging demand have led to bottlenecks.
                          European manufacturers, including NKT (Denmark), Prysmian (Italy), and Nexans
                          (France), represent around two-thirds of the global HVDC market, now have
                          capacity slots booked until 2030.


HVDC contract prices per km per kV, 2019-2024
                      6
Thousand USD (2023)




                      4




                      2




                      2019              2020            2021           2022               2023                2024

                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: kV = kilovolts. The data are for >400 kV HVDC projects
Source: IEA analysis based on market tenders.
                                                                                                                            I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                           PAGE | 31
Building the Future Transmission Grid                        Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           Procuring DC cables involves significantly longer waiting times compared to AC
           cables, with some waiting lists now extending more than five years. This
           bottleneck is further compounded by the limited number of vessels and skilled
           operators capable of laying and maintaining submarine cables. Offshore cable
           installation is a highly technical process requiring specialised vessels and
           expertise. Only around 60 vessels worldwide can handle these tasks, and many
           of these have already been in service for decades, which adds to the constraints.

           Projects are becoming increasingly expensive and are experiencing delays, partly
           because of the cost overruns in submarine lines. For example, the Princess
           Elisabeth Island project in the North Sea, designed to meet nearly a third of
           electricity demand in Belgium, has seen costs balloon from an estimated
           USD 2.3 billion in 2021 to USD 7.3 billion. The Harmony Link project connecting
           Poland and Lithuania, originally slated for completion in 2025, has been pushed
           to 2028 due to budget overruns.


The 1.5 million job gap in the power grid
sector
           Global employment in the power grid sector increased steadily, to reach over 8
           million jobs in 2023. This growth is unevenly distributed, with China and the
           advanced economies accounting for more than half of the total employment in the
           sector. Despite rising energy infrastructure investments in EMDE other than
           China, job growth in regions such as Africa and Southeast Asia has been slower.
           In Africa, the initiatives to provide universal electricity access is driving job
           creation, particularly in mini-grid and off-grid solutions, rather than in large-scale
           high-voltage projects.

           In the transmission and distribution sectors, around 60% of jobs are in grid
           operation and maintenance, where workers handle outages, customer
           connections, and tasks like meter reading. In countries with rapid power grid
           expansion, a larger proportion of the workforce works in manufacturing and
           construction. For example, construction workers make up 42% of the power sector
           workforce in China.

           By 2030, the number of jobs in transmission and distribution reaches 9.5 million in
           the STEPS, an 18% increase from 2023. About 80% of this increase is projected
           to be in the EMDE. This indicates a gap of 1.5 million job in the power sector,
           which is starting to become evident. With ambitious goals for transmission
           modernisation and infrastructure development, countries are facing increasing
           shortages of skilled workers. These jobs require highly trained expertise and
           specialised knowledge which adds to the challenges of fulfilling the skilled labour
           gap.
                                                                                                                  I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 32
Building the Future Transmission Grid                                   Chapter 2: Transmission supply chains under strain
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



Global employment in the power grids sector by scenario, 2023-2030
                    12 000
Thousands of jobs




                                                                                                           Other
                    10 000

                                                                                                           Manufacturing
                     8 000
                                                                                                           Construction
                     6 000
                                                                                                           Utilities
                     4 000
                                                                                                           Total
                     2 000



                                 2023          STEPS 2030           APS 2030           NZE 2030

                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: STEPS = Stated Policies Scenario; APS = Announced Pledges Scenario; NZE = Net Zero Emissions by 2050
Scenario. Employment in grids include jobs in electricity transmission, distribution and storage.



                        The problem is not limited to the demand for skilled labour to design and execute
                        transmission projects; there is also a critical need to support the simultaneous
                        expansion efforts of manufacturers. This further strains the capacity to meet both
                        labour and manufacturing requirements at scale, making it progressively more
                        complex to fulfil the expanding needs for grids in order to provide secure and
                        affordable electricity in the transition to a net zero emissions power sector.

                        The Australian Energy Market Operator forecasts that electricity sector jobs will
                        peak between 2025 and 2029, with demand in Australia expected to at least
                        double in this period. Most of this demand will be driven by wind and rooftop solar
                        installations, with transmission construction as the next key contributor. This
                        highlights the growing need for skilled workers in these areas as countries strive
                        to meet their clean energy transition goals. The Transmission Business Plan in
                        the United Kingdom outlines a strategy to address the skills shortage in the power
                        sector and establishes an initiative, the Great Grid Partnership, to tackle the skilled
                        labour issues.

                        According to the latest job survey by the World Economic Forum, the demand for
                        electrotechnology engineers is projected to rise 20% between 2025 and 2030,
                        while the need for electrical equipment installers and technicians is expected to
                        increase by around 12%. In addition, environmental and renewable energy
                        engineers are among the fastest growing professions, highlighting the increasing
                        need for a skilled workforce in the short term to spur the clean energy transition.
                                                                                                                             I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                            PAGE | 33
Building the Future Transmission Grid                           Chapter 3: Actionable recommendations
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges




Chapter 3: Actionable
recommendations

Provide greater visibility on future demand for
transmission components
           Clear signals on future demand, including firm and transparent project pipelines,
           are essential to secure adequate investments in supply chains. Effective planning
           and collaboration, based on a credible, integrated vision for the electricity sector
           development (and the universal access to electricity, where this remains to be
           achieved), is instrumental to set parameters for the quantity and types of cables
           and electrical equipment that will be needed. Such an outlook can then shape the
           planning of manufacturers and underpin their investment decisions so that their
           operations are efficient and provide the needed components in a timely manner.
           It also enables industry and governments to right-size programmes to train and
           sustain a skilled workforce.

           Actionable timelines and commitments, for example in a well-structured master
           plan for system development that incorporates technical specifications and
           regulatory requirements, reinforce confidence across the supply chain, allowing
           suppliers and manufacturers to align their capacity and resource planning with
           projected needs. Governments should request long-term grid investment plans to
           be prepared domestically and regionally. Endorsing these plans and tracking their
           implementation can improve the security and pace of grid investment and
           incentivise the development of supply chains.


Enhance dialogue between governments, TSOs,
regulators, developers and manufacturers
           Strong coordination and dialogue between governments, TSOs, regulatory
           bodies, developers and manufacturers is key to ensure timely delivery of
           transmission projects, strengthen supply chain resilience, and accelerate the
           transition to clean energy systems. System planning for power grids has become
           significantly more challenging as variable renewables and distributed generation
           have taken a larger share of the generation mix. This adds complexity to system
           operations and calls for alignment among a broader range of stakeholders.
           Coordination between transmission and distribution levels in power systems has
           also become more complex, as distribution systems increasingly host generation
           and flexibility resources. New tools, methods and processes are needed to assess
                                                                                                        I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 34
Building the Future Transmission Grid                             Chapter 3: Actionable recommendations
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           infrastructure demands effectively. Integrated approaches are needed that
           address connections within the power sector and across other sectors.

           Policy makers, regulators and utilities must support institutions, regulations,
           technical standards and collaboration platforms to build consensus on effective
           planning approaches that take full account of the changes in the profiles of power
           systems and their operations. Encouraging TSOs to share procurement and
           capacity planning data with regulators will further support informed policymaking.


Encourage proactive grid investment strategies
           Transmission development inherently operates on slower timelines compared with
           distributed energy resources and renewable generation projects. To prevent grid
           infrastructure from becoming a bottleneck, grid planning and development needs
           to get ahead of the curve to ensure that investments are made in a timely way,
           including by ensuring that regulatory risk assessments allow for anticipatory
           investments. With today’s tight market, rising component costs, and increasing
           lead times, proactive investment strategies are required to synchronise
           infrastructure build-out with other aspects of power system development, and to
           provide the predictability and certainty that manufacturers need to secure future
           orders and encourage expansion in production capabilities.


Design effective procurement frameworks
           Support long-term agreements: Long-term contracts provide parties with
           greater certainty and visibility on prices and volumes and help to ensure a reliable
           supply of essential components. They offer manufacturers the confidence to invest
           in capacity expansions while enabling buyers to secure the resources needed for
           large-scale grid infrastructure projects. Procurement frameworks should be
           designed in a way that support the conclusion of long-term agreements by aligning
           with project timeline.

           Standardise procurement procedures and criteria: Currently, the lack of
           certainty about the specifications for future projects and significant diversity across
           markets act as barriers to manufacturers setting up the needed delivery capacity.
           Harmonising procurement procedures and criteria, where possible, helps create a
           more transparent and accessible process for suppliers, making it easier for them
           to participate in tenders. This not only simplifies the procurement cycle but also
           enhances efficiency, ultimately accelerating the procurement timelines.

           Introduce standards to ensure interoperability between grid components
           from different manufacturers, particularly for DC technology. DC grids have
           much greater potential for interoperability challenges than AC technology, which
           risks causing delays to new grid projects if components from different
           manufacturers do not work well together.
                                                                                                          I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 35
Building the Future Transmission Grid                           Chapter 3: Actionable recommendations
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           Align with national plans and policies: Procurement frameworks should be
           aligned with national infrastructure and energy transition plans to ensure
           consistency, scalability. By integrating procurement policies with national
           development goals, governments and organisations can promote investment
           certainty, drive industrial growth, and avoid bottlenecks that could slow down
           critical projects.


Streamline permitting processes
           Transmission expansion projects, especially high-voltage interconnections, are
           inherently complex and therefore are highly susceptible to delays. In addition to
           the challenges posed by equipment availability limits, permitting delays can
           significantly hinder progress. Accelerating the permitting process, while
           maintaining its safeguards, is an essential step to avoid severe delays, which
           could ultimately have a more significant impact than supply chain constraints. It is
           crucial to prioritise the permitting of key infrastructure by removing unnecessary
           administrative barriers. Streamlining the processes, through granting priority
           status and simplifying requirements, helps to ensure that transmission system
           projects proceed on schedule and contribute to meeting energy, economic and
           environmental goals.


Make better use of existing grid infrastructure
           Measures to optimise the use of today’s infrastructure, often via the deployment
           of digital technologies, play an important role in relieving pressure on supply
           chains. Real-time monitoring and enhancements in operational performance
           improve the efficiency of transmission lines, minimising the need for immediate
           new infrastructure investments and optimising maintenance requirements.
           Dynamic line rating, for example, involves real-time monitoring of weather
           conditions and line temperatures to adjust the current carrying capacity of
           transmission lines. This technology allows lines to operate closer to their thermal
           limits safely instead of using fixed values, optimising and increasing transmission
           capacity. Performance-based regulation is an important tool to foster operational
           efficiency and encourage investment in innovative and digital assets.


Promote diverse, resilient and sustainable supply chains
           The manufacture of some grid components currently has a high concentration
           among only a handful of top-tier suppliers, which makes diversification of the
           supply chain challenging. Accessing suppliers can be difficult, especially for
           EMDE. Governments can support the diversified supply of grid components that
           have a very limited number of top-tier suppliers by pooling their procurement
           needs and working with local or second-tier suppliers to increase their
           competitiveness. They can also consider measures to incentivise sustainable
                                                                                                        I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 36
Building the Future Transmission Grid                            Chapter 3: Actionable recommendations
Strategies to navigate supply chain challenges



           practices in supply chains, for example by rewarding the circular economy and
           CO2 impact reduction when evaluating proposed investments by TSOs.


Ensure a skilled workforce
           The demand for skilled workers is intensifying across the entire supply chain at
           managerial, technical and manual labour levels, as well as in system operation
           and regulatory authorities. Developing a strong talent pipeline is critical, alongside
           ensuring that digital skills are incorporated into power industry training
           programmes.

           Skilled labour is essential not only to meet the demands of infrastructure projects
           and installations but also to support the expansion of manufacturing capabilities.
           By fostering a skilled workforce, governments can better equip the sector to scale
           manufacturing and operational capacities effectively. Stakeholders in the
           transmission industry also need to collaborate closely to ensure skills
           development is integrated into the planning of transmission line projects. This
           collaboration can help identify the specific skills needed at every stage – from
           design to construction to maintenance – and ensure the workforce is prepared to
           meet those needs.




                                                                                                         I EA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                 PAGE | 37
International Energy Agency (IEA)

This work reflects the views of the IEA Secretariat but does not
necessarily reflect those of the IEA’s individual member countries or of
any particular funder or collaborator. The work does not constitute
professional advice on any specific issue or situation. The IEA makes
no representation or warranty, express or implied, in respect of the
work’s contents (including its completeness or accuracy) and shall not
be responsible for any use of, or reliance on, the work.




Subject to the IEA’s        Notice for CC-licenced Content, this
work is licenced under      a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International Licence.


Unless otherwise indicated, all material presented in figures and tables is
derived from IEA data and analysis.

IEA Publications
International Energy Agency
Website: www.iea.org
Contact information: www.iea.org/contact

Typeset in France by IEA - February 2025
Cover design: IEA
Photo credits: © Shutterstock
