Electricity Grids
and Secure Energy
Transitions
Enhancing the foundations of resilient,
sustainable and affordable power systems
INTERNATIONAL ENERGY
AGENCY
The IEA examines the            IEA member            IEA association
full spectrum                   countries:            countries:
of energy issues
including oil, gas and          Australia             Argentina
coal supply and                                       Brazil
                                Austria
demand, renewable
                                Belgium               China
energy technologies,
electricity markets,            Canada                Egypt
energy efficiency,              Czech Republic        India
access to energy,               Denmark               Indonesia
demand side                     Estonia               Kenya
management and                  Finland               Morocco
much more. Through              France                Senegal
its work, the IEA               Germany               Singapore
advocates policies that         Greece                South Africa
will enhance the                Hungary               Thailand
reliability, affordability      Ireland               Ukraine
and sustainability of
                                Italy
energy in its
31 member countries,            Japan
13 association                  Korea
countries and beyond.           Lithuania
                                Luxembourg
                                Mexico
                                Netherlands
                                New Zealand
                                Norway
                                Poland
                                Portugal
                                Slovak Republic
                                Spain
                                Sweden
                                Switzerland
                                Republic of Türkiye
This publication and any        United Kingdom
map included herein are         United States
without prejudice to the
status of or sovereignty over
any territory, to the
delimitation of international
frontiers and boundaries and
to the name of any territory,   The European
city or area.                   Commission also
                                participates in the
                                work of the IEA
Revised version, November
2023
Information notice found at:
www.iea.org/corrections




Source: IEA.
International Energy Agency
Website: www.iea.org
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                         Abstract




Abstract

           Grids have been the backbone of electricity systems for more than a century,
           underpinning economic activity by bringing power to homes, industry and services.
           As clean energy transitions advance, the role of electricity will be more prominent,
           making grids even more important for society and economies. Electrification and
           renewables deployment are both picking up pace, but without adequate grids to
           connect the new electricity supply with the demand, there is a risk that clean
           energy transitions will stall.

           This report offers a global stocktake of the world’s electricity grids as they stand
           today, taking a detailed look at grid infrastructure, connection queues, the cost of
           outages, grid congestion, generation curtailment, and timelines for grid
           development. We find that there are already signs today that grids are becoming
           a bottleneck to clean energy transitions and analyse the risks we face if grid
           development and reform do not advance fast enough.

           We find that delayed action means prolonging reliance on fossil fuels, resulting in
           an increase in emissions and costs to society. An unprecedented level of attention
           from policy makers and business leaders is needed to ensure grids support clean
           energy transitions and maintain electricity security. The report concludes with key
           recommendations for policy makers, highlighting the necessary actions in areas
           including investment, regulation and planning.




                                                                                                   IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 1
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                              Acknowledgements




Acknowledgements, contributors
and credits

           This study was prepared by the Renewable Integration and Secure Electricity
           (RISE) Unit in the Directorate of Energy Markets and Security (EMS) in co‐
           operation with other directorates and offices of the International Energy Agency
           (IEA). The study was designed and directed by Pablo Hevia-Koch, Head of RISE.
           Main authors are Pablo Hevia-Koch, Brent Wanner, Head of Power Sector Unit,
           and Rena Kuwahata, Energy Analyst Power System Transformation.

           The electricity grid modelling team for this report was led by Brent Wanner and
           additional analysis was led by Rena Kuwahata. Zoe Hungerford was also part of
           the core team and contributed across the report. Key contributions were from Eren
           Çam (outages), Javier Jorquera Copier (congestion management and outages),
           Trevor Criswell (connection queues), Michael Drtil (transmission and permitting),
           Stavroula Evangelopoulou (supply chain), Eric Fabozzi (modelling), Enrique
           Gutierrez (regulation), Bruno Idini (employment), Laura Mari Martinez
           (curtailment), Alessio Pastore (regulation and distribution), and Alana Rawlins
           Bilbao (investment).

           Other contributions from across the agency were from:

           Heymi Bahar (connection queues and curtailment), Daniel Crow, Minna
           Genser (cyber security), Julia Guyon (electricity demand and electric vehicles),
           Katsuki Ishimaki (cyber security), John Moloney (outages), Yu Nagatomi
           (planning and investment policies), Camille Paillard (public acceptance and
           permitting), Uwe Remme (supply chains) and Daniel Wetzel (employment).

           Matthieu Coget, Jinpyung Kim, Hyejeong Lee, Jae Sun Lee, Jeremy Tessier,
           Lukas Trippe, and Zhiyu Yang provided essential support.

           Justin French-Brooks carried editorial responsibility.

           Other key contributors from across the IEA were: Rita Madeira, Jinsun Lim, Astha
           Gupta, Brendan Reidenbach, and Vida Rozite.

           Valuable comments and feedback were provided by other senior
           management and numerous other colleagues within the IEA. In particular,
           Keisuke Sadamori, Laura Cozzi and Tim Gould.

           Thanks go to the IEA’s Communications and Digital Office for their help
           in producing the report and website materials, particularly to Jethro Mullen,
           and
                                                                                                IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 2
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                              Acknowledgements




           Oliver Joy. Poeli Bojorquez, Astrid Dumond, Grace Gordon, Isabelle Nonain-
           Semelin, Lucile Wall and Clara Vallois, provided essential support to the
           production process.

           IEA’s Office of the Legal Counsel, Office of Management and Administration
           and Energy Data Centre provided assistance throughout the preparation of
           the report.

           Valuable input to the                  analysis      was   provided   by:    David Wilkinson
           (independent consultant).

           The work could not have been achieved without the support and co‐
           operation provided by many government bodies, organisations and companies
           worldwide, notably: Enel Grids; Hitachi Energy; Iberdrola; ACER; Cigre; EDF;
           ENTSO-E; EU DSO Entity; European Commission; GE Vernova;
           KEEI; Ministério de Minas e Energia Brazil; Ministry of Economy, Trade and
           Industry, Japan; Ministry of Energy of Kenya; OCCTO; State Grid Energy
           Research Institute; US Department of Energy.

           Thanks also go to the IEA Electricity Security Advisory Board.



           Peer reviewers

           Many senior government officials and international experts provided input
           and reviewed preliminary drafts of the report. Their comments and suggestions
           were of great value. They include:
           David Felipe Acosta Correa          Asociación de Distribuidoras de Energía
                                               eléctrica Latinoamericanas (ADELAT)

           Keigo Akimoto                                 The Research Institute of Innovative
                                                         Technology for the Earth

           Mirlan Aldayarov                              The World Bank

           Murad Alomari                                 National Electric Power Company

           Catarina Augusto                              SolarPower Europe

           Pankaj Batra                                  Integrated Research           and    Action   for
                                                         Development

           Ahmed Barakat                                 EgyptERA

           Harmeet Bawa                                  Hitachi Energy

           Edith Bayer                                   Oregon Department of Energy

           Pierre Bornard                                BSDE Associates

           Samir Chandra Saxena                          Grid Controller of India
                                                                                                                IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                     PAGE | 3
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                       Acknowledgements




           Xavier Chen                                Beijing Energy Club

           Naomi Chevillard                           SolarEurope

           Andrei Covatariu                           United Nations Digitalisation Task Force

           Juan David Molina Castro                   Colombia Intelligente

           Carlo Degli Esposti                        TERADEC

           Marcello del Brenna                        Prysmian Group

           Fernando Dominguez                         EU DSO Entity

           Zhongming Du                               Electric Power Planning & Engineering
                                                      Institute

           Marek Duk                                  Polskie Sieci Elektroenergetyczne (PSE)

           Frederic Dunon                             Elia

           Pablo González Gascón y Marín              Iberdrola

           Edwin Haesen                               ENTSO-E

           Melis Isikli                               Eurelectric

           Gerald Kaendler                            Amprion

           James Kappel                               Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
                                                      of Canada

           Sarah Keay-Bright                          National Grid ESO

           Vasiliki Klonari                           Wind Europe

           Jan Kostevc                                Agency for the Cooperation of Energy
                                                      Regulators (ACER)

           Ashok Kumar Rajput                         Central Electricity Authority

           Patricia Labra                             Red Eléctrica de España

           Francisco Laverón                          Iberdrola

           Marina Lombardi                            Enel Grids

           Stephen Lorimer                            Centre for Net Zero

           Qiuyang Ma                                 State Grid Research Institute

           Matthew Magill                             National Grid ESO

           Yasuo Matsuura                             Kansai Transmission and Distribution

           Christoph Maurer                           Consentec

           Victoria Mollard                           Australian Energy Market Commission
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 4
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                       Acknowledgements




           Albert Moser                               RWTH Aachen

           Mirela Mustafic                            Svenska Kraftnet

           Manabu Nabeshima                           The     Electricity and     Gas       Market
                                                      Surveillance Commission

           S R Narasimhan                             Grid Controller of India

           Bruce Nordman                              Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory

           Kaname Ogawa                               Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
                                                      Japan

           Mika Ohbayashi                             Japan Renewable Energy Institute

           Hiroshi Okamoto                            TEPCO Power Grid

           Juan Carlos Olmedo                         Coordinador Eléctrico Nacional

           Barbara O'Neill                            National Renewable Energy Laboratory

           Eli Pack                                   Australian Energy Market Operator

           Robert Pan                                 BC Hydro

           Kristen Panerali                           World Economic Forum

           Zsuzsanna Pato                             Regulatory Assistance Project

           Michelle Patron                            Microsoft

           Alan Pears                                 RMIT University

           Zubin Postwalla                            GE Vernova Grid Solutions

           Julia Reinaud                              Breakthrough Energy

           Magnus Röstlund                            NKT Group

           Louise Rullaud                             Eurelectric

           Gerhard Salge                              Hitachi Energy

           Ignacio Santelices                         Adelat

           Raphael Sauter                             European Commission

           Marcus Stewart                             Department for Business, Energy and
                                                      Industrial Strategy

           Reena Suri                                 India Smart Grid Forum

           Marcio Szechtman                           CIGRE

           Thais Texeira                              Empresa de Pesquisa Energética

           Alberto Toril                              Breakthrough Energy
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 5
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                  Acknowledgements




           Nikos Tsafos                               Office of the Prime Minister, Hellenic
                                                      Republic

           Andreas Ulbrig                             RWTH Aachen

           Nuki Utama                                 ASEAN Centre for Energy

           Jan Van Roost                              Coreso

           Peter Vermaat                              EU DSO Entity

           Stéphane Verret                            Hydro Quebec

           Aisma Vītiņa                               Ørsted

           Viviana Vitto                              Enel Grids

           Karin Wadsack                              Global Power System Transformation

           Volker Wendt                               Europacable

           Matthew Wittenstein                        United Nations Economic and Social
                                                      Commission for Asia and the Pacific
                                                      (ESCAP)

           Hyeok-Jun Yoon                             Korea Power Exchange

           Audrey Zibelman                            Zibelman Energy Advisors

           Christian Zinglersen                       Agency for the Cooperation of Energy
                                                      Regulators (ACER)




                                                                                                    IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 6
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                 Executive summary




Executive summary

Modern, smart and expanded grids are
essential for successful energy transitions
           The backbone of today’s electricity systems, grids are set to become
           increasingly important as clean energy transitions progress, but they
           currently receive too little attention. Grids have been delivering power to
           households, businesses and industry for over 100 years. Clean energy transitions
           are now driving the transformation of our energy systems and expanding the role
           of electricity across economies. As a result, countries’ transitions to net zero
           emissions need to be underpinned by bigger, stronger and smarter grids.

           To achieve countries’ national energy and climate goals, the world’s
           electricity use needs to grow 20% faster in the next decade than it did in the
           previous one. Electricity demand needs to grow even more rapidly in a global
           pathway to net zero emissions by 2050, which is consistent with limiting the rise
           in global temperatures to 1.5 °C. Expanded grids are critical to enable such levels
           of growth as the world deploys more electric vehicles, installs more electric heating
           and cooling systems, and scales up hydrogen production using electrolysis.

           Reaching national goals also means adding or refurbishing a total of over
           80 million kilometres of grids by 2040, the equivalent of the entire existing
           global grid. Grids are essential to decarbonise electricity supply and effectively
           integrate renewables. In a scenario in which countries’ national energy and climate
           goals are met on time and in full, wind and solar PV account for over 80% of the
           total increase in global power capacity in the next two decades, compared with
           less than 40% over the past two decades. In the International Energy Agency’s
           (IEA) Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario, wind and solar account for almost
           90% of the increase. The acceleration of renewable energy deployment calls for
           modernising distribution grids and establishing new transmission corridors to
           connect renewable resources – such as solar PV projects in the desert and
           offshore wind turbines out at sea – that are far from demand centres like cities and
           industrial areas.

           Modern and digital grids are vital to safeguard electricity security during
           clean energy transitions. As the shares of variable renewables such as solar PV
           and wind increase, power systems need to become more flexible to accommodate
           the changes in output. In a scenario consistent with meeting national climate
           goals, the need for system flexibility doubles between 2022 and 2030. Grids need
           to both operate in new ways and leverage the benefits of distributed resources,
                                                                                                    IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 7
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                 Executive summary




           such as rooftop solar, and all sources of flexibility. This includes deploying grid-
           enhancing technologies and unlocking the potential of demand response and
           energy storage through digitalisation.


Grids risk becoming the weak link of clean
energy transitions
           At least 3 000 gigawatts (GW) of renewable power projects, of which
           1 500 GW are in advanced stages, are waiting in grid connection queues –
           equivalent to five times the amount of solar PV and wind capacity added in
           2022. This shows grids are becoming a bottleneck for transitions to net zero
           emissions. The number of projects awaiting connection worldwide is likely to be
           even higher, as data on such queues is accessible for countries accounting for
           half of global wind and solar PV capacity. While investment in renewables has
           been increasing rapidly – nearly doubling since 2010 – global investment in grids
           has barely changed, remaining static at around USD 300 billion per year.

           Delays in grid investment and reform would substantially increase global
           carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, slowing energy transitions and putting the
           1.5 °C goal out of reach. For this report, we developed the Grid Delay Case to
           explore the impacts of more limited investment, modernisation, digitalisation and
           operational changes than are envisioned in the IEA’s climate-focused scenarios.
           The Grid Delay Case shows transitions stalling, with slower uptake of renewables
           and higher fossil fuel use. Cumulative CO2 emissions from the power sector to
           2050 would be 58 gigatonnes higher in the Grid Delay Case than in a scenario
           aligned with national climate targets. This is equivalent to the total global power
           sector CO2 emissions from the past four years. It would also mean that the global
           long-term temperature rise would go well above 1.5 °C, with a 40% chance of it
           exceeding 2 °C.

           At a time of fragile natural gas markets and concerns about gas supply
           security, failing to build out grids increases countries’ reliance on gas. In the
           Grid Delay Case, global gas imports are over 80 billion cubic metres (bcm) a year
           higher after 2030 than in a scenario aligned with national climate targets – and
           coal imports nearly 50 million tonnes higher. Delayed grid development also
           increases the risk that economically damaging outages would multiply. Today,
           such outages already cost around USD 100 billion a year, or 0.1% of global GDP.


Action today can secure grids for the future
           Regulation needs to be reviewed and updated to support not only deploying
           new grids but also improving the use of assets. Grid regulation needs to
           incentivise grids to keep pace with the rapid changes in electricity demand and
           supply. This requires addressing administrative barriers, rewarding high
                                                                                                    IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 8
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                     Executive summary




           performance and reliability, and spurring innovation. Regulatory risk assessments
           also need to improve to enable accelerated buildout and efficient use of
           infrastructure.

           Planning for transmission and distribution grids needs to be further aligned
           and integrated with broad long-term planning processes by governments.
           New grid infrastructure often takes five to 15 years to plan, permit and complete,
           compared with one to five years for new renewables projects and less than two
           years for new EV charging infrastructure. Grid plans need to integrate inputs from
           long-term energy transition plans across sectors, anticipating and enabling the
           growth of distributed resources, connecting resource-rich regions including
           offshore wind, and reflecting links with other sectors including transport, buildings
           and industry, and fuels such as hydrogen. Robust stakeholder and public
           engagement is key to inform scenario development. The public needs to be aware
           and informed about the link between grids and successful energy transitions.

           To meet national climate targets, grid investment needs to nearly double by
           2030 to over USD 600 billion per year after over a decade of stagnation at
           the global level, with emphasis on digitalising and modernising distribution
           grids. Concerningly, emerging and developing economies, excluding China, have
           seen a decline in grid investment in recent years, despite robust electricity demand
           growth and energy access needs. Advanced economies have seen steady growth
           in grid investment, but the pace needs to step up to enable rapid clean energy
           transitions. Investment continues to rise in all regions beyond 2030.

           Building out grids requires secure supply chains and a skilled workforce.
           Governments can support the expansion of supply chains by creating firm and
           transparent project pipelines and by standardising procurement and technical
           installations. They also need to build in future flexibility by ensuring interoperability
           of all the different elements of the system. There is also a significant need for
           skilled professionals across the entire supply chain, as well as at operators and
           regulatory institutions. It will be essential to build out a pipeline of talent, ensure
           digital skills are integrated into power industry curricula and manage the impacts
           of the energy transition and increased automation on workers through reskilling
           and on-the-job training.

           The most important barriers to grid development differ by region. The
           financial health of utilities is a central challenge in some countries, including India,
           Indonesia and Korea, while access to finance and high cost of capital are key
           barriers in many emerging market and developing economies, particularly in Sub-
           Saharan Africa. Financial barriers can be addressed by improving the way grid
           companies are remunerated, driving targeted grid funding and increasing cost
           transparency. For other jurisdictions, such as Europe, the United States, Chile and
           Japan, the strongest barriers relate to public acceptance of new projects and the
           need for regulatory reform. Here, policy makers can speed up progress on grids
           by enhancing planning, ensuring regulatory risk assessments allow for
           anticipatory investments and streamlining administrative processes.
                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 9
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                         Introduction




Introduction

           Clean energy transitions are gaining momentum globally. The number of country-
           level net zero targets has exploded in the last five years, with more than
           90 announced to date. Many of these are now reflected in policy documents and
           in some cases enacted into law. The global energy crisis is set to accelerate clean
           energy transitions despite the turmoil it has created in the sector, as governments
           respond with stronger policies to improve energy security using clean sources.
           The power sector is at the forefront of these transitions, both in policy ambition
           and progress. Renewables deployment set new records in 2022 and is set to do
           so again in 2023. Electrification is picking up pace, with heat pump installations
           growing rapidly and electric car markets increasing exponentially.


Grids are essential to modern life, but energy transitions
are at risk without vital upgrades
           All of these developments are enabled by power grids, which sit at the heart of
           electricity sector security, affordability and decarbonisation. Yet, grids have so far
           not captured the level of public attention that they warrant – and need. Grids are
           above all essential for bringing power to industry, citizens and services. To do this
           in the context of secure and affordable transitions they must host and connect new
           power generation sources and efficient and flexible devices, as well as adapt to
           changing patterns of population. Lack of grid development – expansion and
           strengthening, digitalisation, modernisation and more effective utilisation –
           presents risks to electricity security while both limiting the pace and increasing the
           cost of clean transitions. This is not only a problem for the future, but one we are
           seeing already, where long lead times for grid projects delay necessary upgrades
           and grid connection acts as a bottleneck for renewables deployment in many
           places. Grids are also a key provider of flexibility for the power system, facilitating
           the integration of variable renewable energy and distributed energy resources, as
           well as being key to the regional integration of power systems.

           Today’s policy context and grid expansion plans show that grids will need to
           continue growing and being strengthened to meet growing demand, with
           electrification intensifying GDP-driven growth in emerging economies and driving
           new growth in advanced economies. At the same time, clean energy transitions
           coupled with new technology will transform the grids we have now. Microgrids and
           storage will complement, but not replace, grid development. Digitalisation and
           more distributed resources create an opportunity for smarter and more resilient
           grids, while requiring them to operate more flexibly and be protected from
           cybersecurity threats. Technological change calls for updates to institutions and
                                                                                                       IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 10
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                            Introduction




           regulation to ensure that remuneration structures reward the investments that will
           deliver efficient, modern grids. New technologies and practices, such as increased
           battery storage and the development of microgrids, can act as alternatives to
           traditional infrastructure buildout in some cases, but we need new poles and wires
           too. Policy makers need to ensure that planning and investment bring the best
           solutions forward in diverse situations, accounting for complex criteria that balance
           cost, acceptability and sustainability.


It is time for policy makers to create the frameworks for
grid transformation
           With this special report, we aim to put an urgently needed spotlight on power grids.
           While grids in many local and technical situations require specific solutions, we
           can nonetheless identify key themes that hold true across many contexts. The role
           of grids in energy transitions is just as foundational as that of solar panels, wind
           turbines and electric vehicles. Policy makers need to create the frameworks that
           will enable grids to be transformed, modernised and expanded. The private sector
           will need to innovate and invest. The wider public should be made aware of the
           need for this critical infrastructure and be enabled to help find the balance between
           cost and impact on society and the environment.

           The report starts with a stocktake of grids as they stand, to understand their
           current status and pace of change in recent years. We then look at where we need
           to go to achieve the climate targets for 2050 and what would happen if grid
           development falls short. Finally we distil a set of recommendations for policy
           makers to identify actions they can take to ensure grids enable, rather than
           impede, energy transitions across different power industry and economic contexts.

           Our analysis is based on the Announced Pledges Scenario (APS) from the World
           Energy Outlook 2022 modelling, and a special Grid Delay Case. The APS shows
           the pathway corresponding with announced ambitions and targets, including all
           national announcements as of September 2022. This scenario provides a
           benchmark for the grid development that would be needed to meet today’s climate
           pledges on time. The Grid Delay Case is a variation of the APS that was developed
           for this report to explore the potential impacts of failing to deliver grid infrastructure
           in a timely manner. In this case, slower development of grid infrastructure delays
           the deployment of solar PV and wind power in all regions, keeping global solar PV
           capacity additions 10% below the APS level in 2030 and almost 20% below it in
           2050. Wind capacity additions are held more than 15% below the APS in both
           2030 and 2050. This results in higher outputs from other technologies, including
           fossil fuels, and higher emissions as a consequence. Comparing these scenarios
           allows us to highlight the need to accelerate grid development now and the
           potential risks if grids do not keep pace with energy transitions.
                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 11
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                         Introduction




           The report is structured in four chapters as follows:

           In Chapter 1 (State of play) we give an overview of grids today, including a brief
           introduction to grid infrastructure and its current status, and describing recent rates
           of grid deployment, supply chains and the implications of digitalisation. We then
           look at the links between grid development and clean energy transitions, showing
           how electrification will place additional demands on the grid while at the same time
           higher dependence on electricity raises the importance of reliable, secure supply.
           We provide analysis of current connection queues, grid congestion and losses,
           and grid permitting and construction times, illustrating how grids are already
           becoming a barrier to electricity sector transformation. Finally we look at current
           remuneration structures for grids and reforms that can support efficient grid
           investment, including the modernisation and deployment of new technologies.

           In Chapter 2 (Regulation and policy) we describe current trends in power grid
           planning and the necessary evolution, currently underway in many places, to
           adapt planning to the needs of energy transitions. We identify promising policy-
           driven initiatives targeting accelerated grid development, which can act as useful
           examples for policy makers, including those that are boosting investment, lowering
           regulatory barriers and fostering societal support.

           In Chapter 3 (Identifying the gap) we look at the key drivers for grid development
           in energy transitions, including electrification, integrating distributed energy
           resources, resilience to climate risk and the need to keep improving electricity
           access. We analyse the implications of these drivers in terms of the need to
           increase investment and the deployment of infrastructure in the coming years. We
           then present the Grid Delay Case and quantify the potential impacts of reduced
           grid development on renewables deployment and the ability to meet
           decarbonisation targets.

           In Chapter 4 (Policy recommendations) we present policy approaches to
           support timely grid deployment across six key areas – planning, investment, grid
           enhancement, supply chains, data streamlining, transparency and digitalisation,
           and developing capable institutions and skilled workforces. While each country
           context is specific, we identify recommendations that address common challenges
           across many countries and highlight aspects of particular relevance to emerging
           or advanced economies.
                                                                                                       IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 12
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                               Chapter 1: State of play




Chapter 1: State of play

           Power grids are major pieces of infrastructure with many components and a high
           degree of technical complexity. Understanding the current state of grid
           development is not a simple task, particularly due to data availability challenges
           relating both to the basic infrastructure and the technologies used in its operation
           and management. Nonetheless, to identify where grids need to go in the coming
           years and the current priorities for action, we need an understanding of the current
           state of play.

           In this chapter we attempt the first global stocktake of power grids. It includes
           comprehensive data collection on the quantity and age of existing infrastructure,
           and the technologies used. We also quantify recent investment trends, analyse
           the status of supply chains and give an overview of progress in interconnection
           and the role of digitalisation. To better understand shifts already taking place in
           power grids, we also look at the impacts of electrification and decarbonisation at
           the grid level, and the role of grids in electricity security. We then analyse
           deployment times for grids to better understand the speed at which new
           infrastructure can currently be deployed in different regions. Finally, we look at
           jobs related to the grids sector and how they are evolving.

           The total length of electricity grid infrastructure has grown steadily over the last
           50 years, concentrated in distribution networks. The rapid growth of variable
           renewables and distributed resources is creating new challenges for grids and
           requiring them to be more flexible. In advanced economies we see increasing
           investment, but also very long lead times for transmission grid projects, signalling
           challenges to the realisation of planned development. In emerging market and
           developing economies (EMDEs), significant strides have been made in increasing
           electricity access, but investment has been falling off in recent years while demand
           continues to grow, driven by economic and population growth. Supply chains for
           grids are already showing some tightness, which could pose risks to grid
           development in the coming years. We see grids playing a central role in electricity
           security, and at the same time increasing signs of grid congestion and bottlenecks
           in connecting renewable projects in many places. In short, we find evidence of
           multiple challenges that will need to be addressed to deliver the grids of the future.
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 13
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                            Chapter 1: State of play




Overview of electricity grids today
Grid length has almost doubled over the past 30 years,
driven by expansion of distribution networks
                  Over the past five decades the electricity grid has experienced continuous growth,
                  at a rate of about 1 million km per year. The majority of this expansion has
                  occurred in distribution grids, which account for about 93% of the total length. They
                  are essential as they form the last mile to the majority of customers, and they need
                  to expand to bring electricity access to more people and to meet demand growth.
                  Transmission lines constitute the remaining 7% of the grid's total length.


Global historical grid length, 1971-2021
             90
Million km




             80
             70
             60
             50
             40
             30
             20
             10
              0
                      1971            1981          1991             2001          2011               2021
                              EMDEs                          Advanced economies
                               Distribution   Transmission    Distribution  Transmission

                                                                                           IEA. All rights reserved.
Note: Line route length of grids.
Sources: IEA analysis based on Global Transmission and NRG Expert.



                  In 2021, there were almost 80 million km of overhead power lines and
                  underground cables worldwide, of varying voltage levels, which equate to roughly
                  a hundred trips to the moon and back.

                  Grids are differentiated according to their voltage levels. Low-voltage lines supply
                  electricity to residential and commercial users, while medium-voltage lines serve
                  villages and small and medium-sized industrial sites; both levels connect
                  distributed electricity generation. Collectively, these lines form the distribution grid.
                                                                                                                       IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                      PAGE | 14
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                  Chapter 1: State of play




           The high-voltage grid connects utility-size generation, distribution grids and large
           industrial consumers, and, along with extra-high-voltage and ultra-high-voltage
           (UHV) lines that transport electricity over longer distances, they form the
           transmission grid.

           Most electricity grids carry alternating current (AC), historically generated by
           rotating generators in thermal and hydroelectric power plants. Renewable energy
           sources such as solar PV and wind systems, as well as batteries and fuel cells,
           connect to the power grid through power electronic converters.

           One of the main reasons for the proliferation of AC in grid systems is the ease of
           changing voltage level using power transformers. This enables the transformation
           of electricity to higher voltages for efficient long-distance transmission, minimising
           losses, and its transformation to lower voltages for regional or local distribution
           grids catering to industrial, commercial and residential needs.

           However, numerous situations arise where DC (direct current) proves to be more
           sensible and holds specific advantages. For instance, DC can be preferable in
           scenarios involving subsea cables connecting multiple wind farms or markets,
           cross-border interconnectors and long-distance power transmission from large
           hydropower facilities to large demand centres, allowing minimal losses, supporting
           grid stability and offering black-start capabilities.


Key technology components of electricity grids




                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: FACTS = flexible alternating current transmission system; HVAC = high-voltage alternating current; HVDC = high-
voltage direct current.



           Since the early 2000s electricity grids worldwide have experienced significant
           development and transformation. Besides coping with the increasing demand for
                                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                       PAGE | 15
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                               Chapter 1: State of play




           electricity, the drivers for change include renewable energy integration,
           implementation of digital and smart grid technologies, grid modernisation,
           enhanced grid resilience and security, the electrification of transport, the
           decentralisation of generation, the increase in distributed energy resources and
           the integration of energy storage.


           Distribution grids
           Most grid expansion has been seen at the distribution level in EMDEs. These grids
           have grown by over 40% in the past decade and have almost doubled over the
           last 25 years, playing a central role in granting electricity access to many people
           for the first time. One of the main advances in electricity access is the widespread
           acknowledgement of three reliable approaches to connecting households and
           industry to a dependable electricity supply: grid extension, mini-grids, and
           standalone systems. These three methods have found their way into the national
           policies and strategies of numerous countries. Among them, grid extension, where
           feasible, is typically the most cost-effective option for achieving electricity access
           for households. Significant efforts have been made at the distribution level to
           connect new customers in EMDEs, resulting in an increase in the share of their
           population with electricity access of around 12 percentage points in the past
           decade.

           The expansion of the distribution grid in EMDEs has resulted in impressive
           examples of raising electricity access. For example, nearly 100% of the
           populations of India and Indonesia have electricity access, even though the
           access rate was less than 45% and 55%, respectively, only 20 years ago.

           In India, the Saubhagya programme played a crucial role in connecting millions of
           households to the grid, effectively reducing the country's overall electricity deficit
           and enhancing the quality of life for numerous citizens. Similarly, the People’s
           Republic of China (hereafter “China”) pursued several electrification programmes
           including State Grid Corporation’s 2006 programme, providing electricity to
           1.9 million households and 7.5 million people by 2015, and China Southern Power
           Grid’s programme reaching 2.3 million people by 2012. By the end of 2015, nearly
           the entire Chinese population of 1.4 billion people had access to electricity.

           In total, approximately 15 million km of distribution lines have been constructed in
           the past decade, with EMDEs accounting for almost 12.5 million km. India alone
           contributed more than 3.5 million km, while China added nearly 2.2 million km,
           representing approximately 30% of these countries’ distribution grids. Brazil added
           1.7 million km, an increase of 53% boosted by the "Luz Para Todos" (Light for All)
           programme, which played a vital role in extending electricity to rural households,
           schools and healthcare centres.
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 16
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                               Chapter 1: State of play




           Since electricity access is already close to 100% in advanced economies, they
           experienced a modest rise of more than 9% over the past ten years. The
           United States added around 925 000 km of new distribution lines, while the
           countries of the European Union added around 715 000 km. Japan's grid only
           experienced a 3% increase, equivalent to less than 40 000 km.


           Transmission grids
           In the past ten years, EMDEs have constructed around 1.17 million km of new
           transmission lines. The primary reason for the expansion of transmission grids in
           these regions is the growing demand for electricity, which is further accelerated
           by expanding access to electricity. Several countries have established ambitious
           targets for renewable energy integration, leading to renewable power generation
           in locations distant from major load centres. The variability of this generation,
           coupled with the need for energy security, has prompted the construction of
           additional transmission lines to bolster the grid and in many cases the
           establishment of interconnections with neighbouring countries.


Electricity transmission and distribution lengths by age and country/region, 2021
                            Transmission                                                 Distribution

                        Japan
              European Union
                 United States
  Other advanced economies
               Southeast Asia
                         Africa
                         India
                         China
                Other EMDEs

                                  0               1                2         0           5          10             15
                                                      Million km                                    Million km
                                             Older than a decade   Added in the last decade

                                                                                              IEA. All rights reserved.
Sources: IEA analysis based on Global Transmission.



           China alone accounts for over one-third of the world’s transmission grid expansion
           in the past decade, having constructed over half a million km of transmission lines
           connecting, among other places, the eastern load centres to the renewable
           energy-rich northern and western provinces via UHV lines. Noteworthy projects in
           China include the ±800 kV Wudongde-Kunliulong UHV Multiterminal Flexible DC
           Demonstration Project and the Zhundong-Wannan ±1 100 kV UHV DC
           Transmission Project. In addition to China, India and Brazil have also made
           significant progress in expanding their grids. India has added nearly 180 000 km
                                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                      PAGE | 17
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                               Chapter 1: State of play




           of transmission lines over the past decade, an increase of around 60%. Similarly,
           Brazil has expanded its transmission system by over 92 000 km during the same
           period, growing by more than 50%.

           In contrast, advanced economies have witnessed comparatively modest growth
           of 9% in their transmission grids. This is related to higher population densities in
           countries like Japan and Korea, but also in part due to rural-urban migration
           (leading to higher urban densities, and thus to higher urban need for grids and
           less need to expand grids into rural areas). The European Union experienced an
           increase of 12% in its transmission grid, while the United States saw an 3%
           expansion. Certain countries, such as Japan, even observed a slight decrease in
           the total length of their transmission lines. This might happen when old parallel
           lines are replaced by a single line with higher capacity. In advanced economies a
           significant amount of uprating occurs, which involves the replacement of existing
           lines with stronger or higher-voltage lines. This strategy is adopted to mitigate the
           challenges associated with lengthy permitting processes.


           Direct current transmission
           High-voltage direct current (HVDC) point-to-point transmission, which involves
           fewer power losses as well as other technical advantages, is becoming more
           common, mainly for long distances but also over medium and short distances.

           The technology was first commercially used in the 1950s employing mercury-arc
           valves, but after the 1970s the introduction of high-power semiconductors led to
           the use of thyristors in HVDC converter stations, which makes smaller HVDC
           systems more economical. The latest generation using insulated gate bipolar
           transistors forming voltage source converters (VSC) offers several further benefits
           over line commutated converters (LCC), such as independent and flexible control
           of active and reactive power within the system. They also offer flexible AC voltage
           control, system stabilisation capabilities during grid faults, the ability to connect
           asynchronous grids and the ability to black-start grids, allowing the restoration of
           a part of the grid without relying on the external transmission grid in the event of a
           total or partial shutdown.

           Most HVDC links today operate at voltages ranging from 300 kV to 800 kV,
           although there are projects, such as one in China, operating at 1 100 kV with a
           transmission capacity of up to 12 GW. HVDC systems are not only efficient for
           onshore power transmission, but also enable the connection of offshore wind
           farms, particularly in remote locations where underwater AC cabling is not
           economically or technically feasible. At present, HVDC transmission losses across
           1 000 km are around 3% compared with typically more than 7% using AC lines.

           The global length of HVDC lines has almost tripled since 2010, surpassing
           100 000 km by the end of 2021, with a total transmission capacity exceeding
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 18
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                  Chapter 1: State of play




           350 GW. However, this represents only 2% of the total transmission length. The
           growth in HVDC lines is primarily driven by long-distance overhead lines in China
           and Brazil, as well as underground and submarine cables in Europe. China
           accounted for almost 50% of total HVDC line length in 2021, while Europe had
           around 10%.


Global HVDC transmission line lengths by country/region
     120 000                                                                          400
                                                                                                     Other
km




                                                                                            GW
     100 000
                                                                                                     China
                                                                                      300
      80 000                                                                                         India

                                                                                                     Brazil
      60 000                                                                          200

                                                                                                     Europe
      40 000
                                                                                      100            Africa
      20 000
                                                                                                     North America

                                                                                                     Capacity (right axis)
               1970       1980         1990         2000           2010        2020

                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: Data are for year end. “Capacity” refers to global HVDC transmission capacity, but excludes the capacity of HVDC
back-to-back systems, which are used to link two AC grids.
Sources: IEA analysis based on RTE International (2022).



           In 1992 the first multiterminal HVDC system began operation in Canada, featuring
           three stations. These systems enable the simultaneous transfer of power between
           three or more terminals, offering increased flexibility in integrating various power
           sources, including renewable energy generation. They facilitate efficient power
           transfer between regions with diverse generation and demand patterns, fostering
           seamless energy exchange across different areas.


Grid investment growth in the past decade has occurred
mainly in advanced economies and China
           Global spending on power grid infrastructure has remained relatively stable for
           more than a decade, hovering at around USD 300 billion per year. The majority of
           these investments are concentrated in advanced economies and China,
           underpinned by the need to support greater electrification efforts and address grid
           balancing requirements in power systems that are becoming increasingly reliant
           on renewable energy sources. Most growth in grid spending is occurring in
           advanced economies and is focused on grid upgrade and replacement rather than
           expansion.
                                                                                                                             IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                       PAGE | 19
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                               Chapter 1: State of play




                           Despite the lower average during the 2020-2022 period, China has witnessed
                           growth in grid investment since 2021, coinciding with the unveiling of its 14th Five-
                           Year Plan. Notably, in 2022 the State Grid Corporation of China budgeted a record
                           USD 75 billion for 2023. It has a particular focus on UHV projects, especially in
                           transmission, with over USD 22 billion worth of initiatives in the second half of
                           2022 and the start of 2023.

                           In advanced economies, grid investment has grown at around 5% on average over
                           the past five years. The main focus is on enhancing the reliability of its grids and
                           upgrading outdated grid infrastructure, leading to substantial capital spending in
                           this area. In 2022 the United States invested approximately USD 90 billion,
                           signifying a 7% increase compared with 2021. Europe’s spending grew at a similar
                           rate, reaching USD 65 billion.


Annual average capital spending on electricity grids by region, 2014-2022
                     180
                                                                                                          2014-16
Billion USD (2022)




                     160
                                                                                                          2017-19
                     140

                     120                                                                                  2020-22

                     100

                     80

                     60

                     40

                     20

                       0
                               Advanced economies           China               Other EMDEs


                                                                                                     IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Source: IEA (2023), World Energy Investment.



                           The pace of investment in EMDEs excluding China has slowed in the last
                           five years, declining on average by 7% per year. The main drivers for investment
                           have been electricity access and demand growth, and the investment slowdown
                           is particularly concerning in light of continued demand growth and the need to
                           continue improving reliability in many regions. Nonetheless, countries like India
                           and regions such as Southeast Asia have made impressive strides in connecting
                           people to the grid. A significant proportion of grid investments in EMDEs heavily
                           rely on government funding, often through state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which
                           dominate the utility sector. There are some exceptions, such as Brazil, where there
                           is a much higher involvement of the private sector due to public-private partnership
                           programmes and concession policies. In Africa, despite efforts to enhance
                           electricity access, factors such as insufficient financial resources, regulatory
                           barriers and, in some countries, political instability have hindered investment in
                           electricity grids.
                                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                             PAGE | 20
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                              Chapter 1: State of play




Electricity grid supply chains
The supply chain for grid infrastructure is showing
tightness
           Global supply chains of all kinds have faced various barriers and bottlenecks in
           recent years. The Covid-19 pandemic and the Russian Federation’s (hereafter
           “Russia”) invasion of Ukraine critically disrupted global energy and technology
           supply chains. Soaring prices for energy and materials, and shortages of critical
           minerals, semiconductors and other components, pose potential roadblocks for
           the energy transition.

           Grid technology supply chains were severely affected. Taking just one example,
           power transformers of 50 MVA size had typical procurement times of 11 months
           prior to the pandemic, but purchasers can currently face a wait of over 18 months
           as manufacturers are struggling to cope with labour and material shortages.

           Constructing a transmission line is a complex task, requiring a variety of different
           components and technologies (e.g. cables, lines, transformers, substations and
           control systems). Different materials are needed to manufacture these
           technologies and components. Copper and aluminium are the principal materials
           for the manufacture of cables and lines. Because of its good electrical conductivity,
           copper was for a long time the preferred choice, although it is three times heavier
           and much more expensive than aluminium. Aluminium has approximately 60% of
           the conductivity of copper, which means that much thicker wires are required for
           the same capacity. As the conductivity-to-weight ratio of aluminium is superior to
           copper, aluminium is usually preferred for overhead power lines and is
           increasingly also used for underground and subsea transmission cables, while
           copper is mostly used for underground and subsea cables.

           The material needs for transmission and distribution lines depend on their voltage
           level. Transmission capacity is the product of current and voltage: if the voltage is
           increased with the same current, transmission capacity increases. Current
           determines the thickness requirement of the conductor as well as the losses. The
           higher the current, the greater the conductor’s thickness and the higher the losses.
           Voltage determines how much insulation is needed – either air for an overhead
           line or insulating material such as cross-linked polyethylene (VPE, XLPE, PE-X or
           XPE), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), cross-linked ethylene-propylene polymer (EPR)
           and silicone rubber in the case of a cable. The higher the voltage, the higher the
           need for insulation. The amount of conductor material and electricity losses can
           therefore be reduced by increasing the transmission voltage.

           An overhead AC transmission line requires around 11 kilogrammes of aluminium
           per megawatt and per kilometre (kg/MW/km), compared with 65 kg/MW/km for an
                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 21
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                   Chapter 1: State of play




           overhead distribution line operating at a much lower voltage. Wood, steel and
           concrete are used for the pylons in the distribution grid, while steel is used for
           transmission towers to support the overhead conductors. Underground cables
           require 101 kg/MW/km of copper for transmission and 438 kg/MW/km for
           distribution. An HVDC line requires much less metal than an AC line – around
           5 kg/MW/km of aluminium for an overhead HVDC line and 29 kg/MW/km of copper
           for an underground cable. Reactive power makes a big difference in the material
           needs of AC lines compared with HVDC lines of the same capacity. A significant
           portion of the power capacity of an AC line is used by reactive power (MVAr),
           which does not produce useful work. This is not the case for an HVDC line, which
           is entirely used for active power transmission (MW). In addition, HVDC systems
           usually operate at higher voltages, which further reduces the material needs
           relative to AC for the same transmission capacity.

           There are several manufacturers of HVAC and HVDC cables and overhead lines,
           with factories around the world. The factories are often located close to demand
           centres to reduce the cost and time associated with transporting cables. The top
           industry players in the high-voltage cable and line market are located in Europe
           (Südkabel in Germany, Nexans in France, NKT in Denmark, Prysmian in Italy,
           Hellenic in Greece and Tele-Fonika/JDR in Poland/United Kingdom), the
           United States (General Cable, Belden and Okonite), in China (NBO and ZTT), in
           Japan (Sumitomo Electric Industries), in Korea (LS Cable) and in the Middle East
           (Dubai Cable Company Pvt Ltd). There are manufacturers in Africa, India and
           Australia with lower manufacturing capacity (e.g. Cullin Africa, Bhuwal Insulation
           Cable and Znergy Cable).


Typical material composition of overhead lines and cables and their supporting
infrastructure by weight, 2021

                     Overhead lines                                            Cables
            HVAC          HVDC         Distribution                 HVAC         HVDC       Distribution
100%                                                     100%
                                                                                                              Concrete

 80%                                                      80%                                                 Wood

                                                                                                              Steel
 60%                                                      60%
                                                                                                              Aluminium
 40%                                                      40%                                                 Insulation

                                                                                                              Copper
 20%                                                      20%


  0%                                                       0%
                                                                                                           IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: For most power cables, the conductor will be either aluminium or copper. The figure shows information for copper
cables due to lack of data on aluminium cable material intensities.
                                                                                                                             IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                        PAGE | 22
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                               Chapter 1: State of play




           Besides manufacturing, the process of constructing new transmission lines can
           also be affected by bottlenecks. Subsea cables, for example, require cable-laying
           vessels. The 45 cable-laying vessels in operation worldwide can lay a total of
           4 200-7 000 km of cable per year (depending on the type of project). Depending
           on the future deployment of offshore wind and subsea interconnectors, additional
           vessels could be needed, which, if their construction is not planned well ahead,
           could create a shortage and delay projects.

           Power transformers are a further key component of power systems. Almost half of
           the material (by weight) required for their manufacture is steel, of which more than
           60% is grain-oriented electrical steel (GOES) with specific magnetic properties
           and high permeability, while the remainder is construction steel. GOES is a key
           material for manufacturing transformers, power generators and EV charging
           stations. The transformer segment currently accounts for the largest share. GOES
           is available in various quality levels, with high permeability varieties allowing the
           transformer to be smaller, requiring less oil for insulation and reducing electrical
           losses. Minimum efficiency standards for transformers, such as the Energy
           Efficiency Program for Certain Commercial and Industrial Equipment in the
           United States, and the Ecodesign Directive in the European Union, are pushing
           the use of higher-quality GOES, although European manufacturers have warned
           recently of shortages.


Typical material composition of transformers by weight and value, 2021

           Transformers by weight                        Transformers by value
           Large power         Distribution             Large power        Distribution
           transformers       transformers              transformers      transformers
100%                                                                                      Other

                                                                                          Insulation materials
 80%
                                                                                          Transformer oil

 60%                                                                                      Aluminium

                                                                                          Copper
 40%
                                                                                          Construction steel

 20%                                                                                      Electrical steel

                                                                                          Material cost as a share of
  0%                                                                                      total transformer cost

                                                                                                      IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Sources: IEA analysis and environmental product declaration reports from manufacturers.



           The cost of GOES used in the transformer core represents more than 20% of the
           transformer’s total cost. The price of GOES is almost 2.5 times higher than that of
           construction steel, and it does not follow the same price trends. Other materials
           needed for the manufacture of transformers include copper, aluminium,
                                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                       PAGE | 23
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                              Chapter 1: State of play




           transformer oil for insulation, insulation material, pressboard, paper, plastics,
           porcelain and rubber. Aluminium is mainly used in low-voltage distribution
           transformers, while mineral oil is used in all types of transformers to insulate and
           cool the transformer windings (copper coils) and core.

           Transformer manufacturing varies according to the size of the transformer. The
           production of medium-voltage and distribution transformers (building of the core,
           production of the windings and the oil tank, assembly of the core and windings
           and final assembly of the transformer and testing) is not overly technologically
           demanding. Their production is spread over a large number of companies across
           the world. The production of large power transformers is concentrated in a few
           companies since special facilities are required (i.e. drying ovens for windings, high
           power testing laboratories, etc.). More than the 40% of the global market is
           accounted for by Hitachi Energy (Switzerland), Siemens Energy (Germany),
           Mitsubishi Electric and Toshiba (Japan), General Electric and Westinghouse
           (United States), Hyundai Heavy Industries (Korea), Chint and China XD Electric
           (China) and Compton Greaves (India).

           The availability of GOES has a significant impact on transformer production. In
           2020 the global manufacturing capacity of GOES stood at around 3.8 Mt and was
           concentrated in a few countries: China, Japan, France, Germany, India, Poland,
           the Czech Republic, Russia, Brazil, Korea and the United States. China is the
           largest market, with estimated annual domestic consumption of 1.33 Mt in 2020,
           followed by the European Union at 0.23 Mt and the United States at 0.15 Mt. The
           transformer industry has been facing shortages of GOES, which led to price
           increases of 70% in 2022 compared with 2020. The sanctions on material exports
           from Russia, which accounted for almost 10% of global GOES production capacity
           in 2020, is an important factor. The ongoing electrification of the transport sector
           is a further contributor, since GOES is used in EV charging stations. Growing
           demand for non-oriented electrical steel (NOES) for making EV motors is another
           contributing factor, as it has led some steel producers to switch part of their
           production away from GOES.

           Semiconductors represent a further area facing supply shortages. The market for
           semiconductors has been volatile for the last two years, and it is expected that the
           supply chain challenges in the industry may continue until early 2024. High-power
           semiconductors are a central component of HVDC converter valves, used in
           HVDC converter stations. HVDC converter stations include a series of other
           components, such as insulated-gate bipolar transistors, capacitors,
           switches/breakers, resistors, inductors, power transformers, DC filters, control
           systems and measuring instruments. Many materials are required in the supply
           chains of the components of the HVDC stations, including silicon, steel,
           aluminium, copper, nickel, polymer and zinc. The expected increase in demand
           for HVDC equipment over the next ten years might put supply chains under
                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 24
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                Chapter 1: State of play




           additional pressure, potentially amplified by a lack of experienced personnel in
           manufacturing and also areas such as engineering, construction and project
           management. The leading producer of converter stations is Hitachi Energy
           (formerly ABB) in Switzerland, followed by Siemens (Germany), General Electric
           (United States), Mitsubishi Electric (Japan), NR Electric and C-EPRI Electric
           Power Engineering (China) and Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (India).

           Another development affecting supply chains is the move towards greater
           sustainability for power grid components. Several jurisdictions are considering
           phasing out the use of certain materials such as lead and SF6 in grid equipment,
           which have limited alternatives. Avoiding supply bottlenecks for grid components
           will require the development of alternative replacement technologies and the
           scale-up of their supply chains.


Electricity grid trends: Ageing,
interconnection and digitalisation
Grids are ageing, posing safety and reliability risks
           The age of electricity grids varies by country, influenced by factors such as
           historical development, investment and ongoing modernisation efforts. The
           lifespan of grid equipment also varies depending on specific components,
           overloading and capacity issues, environmental factors, maintenance practices
           and technological advancements. Electricity grids are expensive assets that are
           often in service much longer than the equipment they connect.


Typical design lifetimes for high-voltage equipment, solar PV, wind and EV charging
stations

             EV charger

                Solar PV

          Onshore wind

          Offshore wind

 Substation automation

          Circuit breaker

     Power transformer

     Underground cable

          Overhead line

                            0            10       20          30     40             50                60
                                                                   Typical design lifetime in years


                                                                                       IEA. CC BY 4.0.
                                                                                                           IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 25
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                 Chapter 1: State of play




           Transformers, which play a critical role in electricity grids, typically have a design
           lifetime of 30 to 40 years, the same as circuit breakers and other switchgear in
           substations. Underground and subsea cables are generally designed for 40 years,
           newer generations even for 50 years, while overhead transmission lines can
           endure for up to 60 years before requiring a major revision to replace ageing parts.
           However, it is worth noting that equipment older than this, particularly expensive
           assets as power transformers, can still be found within electricity grids. With proper
           maintenance and service, the equipment lifetime can be significantly extended,
           while inadequate or deferred maintenance can lead to premature failure. If grid
           assets are consistently operated near or above their rated capacity, they can
           deteriorate faster and have a shorter lifespan. Overloading can cause excessive
           stress on the assets, leading to premature failure. Grids experience physical wear
           and tear due to exposure to weather conditions, temperature fluctuations and
           mechanical stress. These factors can degrade the structural integrity and
           performance of the assets.

           These ageing electrical assets can present significant safety and reliability risks.
           Over time, insulation materials – for example in transformers – can degrade,
           resulting in an increased likelihood of electrical faults, short circuits and even fires.
           Circuit breakers, as they age, may become less reliable in their ability to trip during
           faults. The reliability of electrical assets diminishes as they age, particularly when
           they operate beyond their rated lifetime. This unreliability can lead not only to
           power outages, but also potential equipment damage if safety tripping
           mechanisms fail to function correctly.

           Moreover, ageing electrical equipment poses safety risks to operating staff who
           work near failing equipment. Older equipment often lacks modern safety features,
           and this increases the risk of accidents and human error. Additionally, the
           maintenance and repair costs for ageing assets tend to be higher as these assets
           require more frequent maintenance and repairs to maintain proper functionality.
           When equipment ages, replacement parts may become scarce or expensive, and
           specialised technicians with knowledge of outdated technologies may be
           necessary, resulting in higher costs and longer maintenance times.

           The digital elements of power grids have a much shorter lifetime, but also have
           much faster innovation cycles. These control and protection systems are often
           designed for 15 to 20 years before replacement, which offers significant
           opportunities to update to devices with new functions that increase the flexibility
           and reliability of grid operation. Modern devices offer features such as asset health
           assessment and allow detailed monitoring of the stress to which critical assets
           such as circuit breakers and transformers are exposed throughout their
           operational lifetime. These advances allow for a more complete picture of
           equipment condition and expected reliability. This enables new strategies of
           preventive maintenance, extension of service life and ultimately cost savings –
                                                                                                           IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 26
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                 Chapter 1: State of play




            benefiting not only system operators but customers too. However, issues such as
            software life cycles and cybersecurity also need to be addressed with the updated
            equipment.


Share of grid length by age by country/region, 2021
   100%
                                                                                                         Less than
                                                                                                         10 years
    80%                                                                                                    Tx        Dx

                                                                                                         Between 10
    60%                                                                                                  and 20 years
                                                                                                          Tx      Dx

    40%
                                                                                                         More than
                                                                                                         20 years
    20%                                                                                                   Tx       Dx


      0%
             Japan    European    United Other adv. Southeast     India     Africa   China    Other
                       Union      States economies Asia                                      EMDEs

                                                                                                IEA. All rights reserved.
Notes: Tx = transmission lines; Dx = distribution lines, adv. = advanced.
Sources: IEA analysis based on Global Transmission.



            In advanced economies, electricity grids tend to be older, with infrastructure that
            has sometimes been operational for 50 years or more, mainly due to early
            electrification. However, there is a growing need to modernise this ageing
            infrastructure to enhance efficiency and reliability, and accommodate new energy
            resources. In total, only around 23% of the grid infrastructure in advanced
            economies is less than 10 years old, and more than 50% is more than 20 years
            old. In contrast, EMDEs have newer grids that were developed more recently to
            meet the increasing demand for electricity. About 40% of their total grid
            infrastructure is less than 10 years old, and less than 38% is more than 20 years
            old.

            Certain countries, such as Japan, the United States and those in Europe, have a
            high proportion of their grids dating back over 20 years. In the European Union,
            more than 50% of the grid has been in operation for over 20 years, which is
            approximately half of its average lifespan. These countries have experienced
            modest growth in their grid lengths, resulting in a substantial proportion of their
            grids consisting of old assets. The connection of distant renewable energy sources
            is the main reason for deployment of newer transmission grids.

            The African continent has significant regional variation in the status of its electricity
            infrastructure, with some countries such as Ghana, Kenya and Rwanda making
            notable progress in grid modernisation and expansion, while others continue to
                                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                          PAGE | 27
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                Chapter 1: State of play




           face significant challenges in developing and maintaining their grids. India has a
           mix of older and newer grid infrastructure, with urban centres having more
           modernised grids compared to rural areas. The country has been actively working
           on upgrading and expanding its grid to improve electricity access and facilitate the
           integration of renewable energy sources. As a result, around 45% of India's lines
           and assets are 10 years old or less. China has achieved significant advancements
           in rural electrification, extending grids to remote and underserved areas. Projects
           like the West-East Electricity Transmission Project have improved grid
           connectivity by transferring electricity from resource-rich western provinces to
           power-hungry eastern regions. China is also the world's largest investor in
           renewable energy and has successfully integrated wind and solar power into its
           grid. The deployment of UHV transmission lines enables efficient long-distance
           electricity transfer, thereby supporting renewable energy development. China has
           the highest proportion of transmission lines under 10 years old, with more than
           710 000 km built in the past decade.


Power system interconnection is being used to
strengthen grids to accelerate renewables integration
           In the early stages of electrification, power systems primarily operated
           independently. However, as the demand for electricity grew and regional
           co-operation developed, interconnections between neighbouring systems became
           increasingly common. Europe witnessed the first international interconnections in
           1906 when Switzerland constructed transmission links to connect with France and
           Italy. This marked a significant milestone in the development of interconnected
           power systems, setting the stage for future cross-border collaborations.
           Interconnections across continents, between countries and between regions
           within a country are becoming more prevalent, especially in countries of
           continental dimensions such as Brazil and the United States.

           Interconnections involve the construction and operation of transmission lines,
           substations and, in most cases, flexible AC transmission system (FACTS)
           equipment. In synchronous grids, all interconnected systems maintain the same
           precise electrical frequency, needing a high level of technical compatibility and
           operational co-ordination. In situations where frequency asynchrony exists
           between grids, HVDC technology is employed as it can adapt to any rated voltage
           and frequency, making it suitable for interconnections through transmission lines
           or back-to-back converter stations. It is also used when a high level of flexibility is
           needed or when offshore interconnection is involved.

           The advantages of interconnected grids include improved grid stability, increased
           energy security and enhanced flexibility in managing power demand and supply
           fluctuations. Additionally, interconnected grids enable the integration of renewable
           energy sources like solar and wind, allowing regions with excess clean energy to
                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 28
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                               Chapter 1: State of play




           transfer it to areas with higher demand or less generation capacity. A good
           example is the interconnector between Germany and Norway, known as the North
           Sea Link, which supports the integration of renewable generation by enabling the
           efficient exchange of clean electricity between the two countries. It facilitates the
           utilisation of surplus renewable energy, such as hydropower from Norway and
           wind power from Germany, to balance supply and demand, enhance energy
           security, reduce carbon emissions and assist both nations in achieving their
           renewable energy goals.

           While renewables integration and optimisation are a major factor, interconnecting
           power systems can also serve an important storage purpose and enable electricity
           trading. From an economic perspective, interconnections lead to cost savings,
           revenue generation and market optimisation through power trading and
           integration. IEA has published several reports on this topic, such as Large-scale
           Electricity Interconnection, Integrating Power Systems across Borders and Power
           Systems in Transition.

           An emerging approach to regional interconnection is using meshed HVDC
           offshore grids that link offshore assets to different jurisdictions, allowing the grid
           connection of the generator also to act as an interconnector. This is currently a
           European-driven concept, where projects like offshore wind farms and energy
           islands are being connected to different countries. Meshed offshore grids are
           expected to play a critical role in European energy systems in the next 10 to
           20 years.




      Examples of interconnected grids
      The synchronous grid of continental Europe, the largest of its kind globally,
      operates as a unified system with a frequency of 50 Hz supported by flexible HVDC
      links, supplying electricity to over 500 million customers in 27 countries under a
      Synchronous Area Framework Agreement, including most of the European Union.
      The interconnected grid ensures efficient and reliable power transmission across
      the region. The interconnectors foster cross-border energy trade and collaboration
      among participating countries, resulting in a high degree of market integration.
      More than 40 new interconnections are under development or planned for
      completion by 2030 according to the Ten-Year Development Plan 2022 issued by
      ENTSO-E.
      The SIEPAC (Central American Electrical Interconnection System) is an
      interconnection project that links the power grids of six Central American nations.
      The project was initiated in 1987 and became operational in 2013. The
      transmission lines of SIEPAC connect around 50 million consumers. The grid
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 29
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                              Chapter 1: State of play




      includes a 1 790 km 230 kV transmission line with an initial capacity of 300 MW,
      expected to be expanded to 600 MW in the future.
      Africa has a total of five regional power pools. In addition to the West African Power
      Pool, they include the Southern African Power Pool with 12 member countries, the
      Eastern Africa Power Pool with 13 member countries, the North African Power
      Pool with 5 countries, and the Central African Power Pool with 10 countries. The
      West African Power Pool is a collaborative initiative among national electricity
      companies under the umbrella of the Economic Community of West African States
      (ECOWAS). Founded in 1999, the power pool’s primary objectives are to establish
      a reliable power grid for the region, including the construction of cross-border
      transmission lines, and to create a common market for electricity. With 38 member
      utilities from 14 countries and one observer country, it aims to integrate national
      power systems into a unified regional electricity market, fostering electricity trade
      among ECOWAS member states. As of 2020, the West African Power Pool’s
      installed capacity reached 23.3 GW, and the energy exchanged between member
      states amounted to 6.2 TWh.




Digitalisation is increasingly becoming paramount
           Lines, cables and transformer capacity will remain the mainstays of electricity
           grids, but the significance of investing in digital technologies cannot be
           overlooked, showing a progressive increase from about 12% of total grid
           investment in 2016 to about 20% in 2022. The need to manage a growing number
           of distributed energy resources (e.g. EVs, small-scale renewable energy plants
           and electric heat pumps) as well as new active players (e.g. aggregators and
           prosumers) is requiring system operators to implement new digital solutions to
           enhance the observability of the grid for real-time monitoring and control of energy
           flows, especially in distribution grids, where about 75% of digital investment in
           2022 was directed.

           Most operational decisions are based on load flow analysis using local monitoring
           systems. This approach to system operations works well when the power flows
           from centralised generation capacity to consumers are largely predictable within
           a local or national framework. With the rising penetration of distributed generation
           from renewable sources, the direction of energy flows within the grid is becoming
           less predictable, often characterised by a reversal of power flow, even from
           distribution to transmission grids, requiring the deployment of new digital
           technologies. These are assuming a pivotal role, as shown by the increasing
           amount of investment in the recent years.
                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 30
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                 Chapter 1: State of play




Investment in digital technologies, 2015-2022
                     70                                                                          Analytics
Billion USD (2022)




                     60
                                                                                                 EV public charging
                                                                                                 infrastructure
                     50
                                                                                                 Transformers

                     40
                                                                                                 Networking and
                                                                                                 communications
                     30
                                                                                                 Automation and
                                                                                                 management systems
                     20
                                                                                                 Smart meters
                     10

                      0
                            2015    2016    2017     2018    2019    2020    2021    2022

                                                                                                       IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: Digital includes transmission and distribution automation, networking and communications, analytics (asset
performance management, power quality and grid operations), smart meters, advanced distribution management systems,
energy management systems, transmission line sensors, vegetation management, dynamic line rating and digitalisation of
power transformers and substations.
Sources: IEA analysis based on data from Guidehouse.




                          Distribution grids
                          The manifestation of bidirectional energy flows over longer distances, and the
                          growing presence of variable generation sources, are altering the predictability of
                          electricity flows within the system. Increasing power injections from distributed
                          generation facilities can result in more dynamic system conditions and local line
                          overloads, depending on the equipment involved.

                          Digital technologies play a crucial role in addressing these changes as they arise
                          in the energy context, requiring the full deployment of smart grids features, as
                          stressed by the 3DEN: Digital Demand-Driven Electricity Networks Initiative on
                          electricity grid modernisation and digitalisation. Smart grids co-ordinate the needs
                          and capabilities of all the power systems actors (generators, grid operators, end
                          users and other market players) to operate all parts of the system as efficiently as
                          possible, minimising costs and environmental impacts while maximising system
                          reliability, resilience, flexibility and stability, addressing both short-term as well as
                          long-term grid challenges.

                          Within smart grids, the smart meter represents the first point from which the
                          visibility of load flows in the distribution grid can be enhanced, even at the low-
                          voltage level, while making customers more aware of their own electricity
                          consumption and enabling new billing structures, such as dynamic and time-of-
                          use tariffs. Additionally, they provide a first measure of grid health for grid
                          operators.
                                                                                                                           IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                             PAGE | 31
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                              Chapter 1: State of play




Digital solutions to tackle short- and long-term grid challenges




                                                                                                    IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: DG = distributed generation.
Sources: IEA analysis based on 3DEN, Unlocking Smart Grid Opportunities in Emerging Markets and Developing
Economies (2023), World Economic Forum, Accelerating Smart grid Investments (2010).



           In addition, advanced monitoring and control devices, along with their
           corresponding software, have the capability to improve real-time system
           information monitoring and grid management. Remote control of the grid
           minimises intervention times and the number of operations that need to be
           performed locally on the grid, making operation of the grid possible from a single
           control centre using dedicated supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA).
           Advanced automation tools allow the grid to act autonomously, quickly identifying
           and isolating the faulty element. For example, self-healing automation of the
           medium- and low-voltage grid, already implemented by Enel in Italy and Duke
           Energy in the United States, ensures the automatic containment of the duration of
           an outage and the number of customers involved, thereby preventing cascading
           power outages.

           Moreover, the possibility of accessing real-time knowledge about the health of the
           system enables more efficient utilisation of existing resources, allowing grids to
           operate closer to their true limits without compromising reliability, as well as
           identifying optimal time for equipment renewal, in particular for those with
           extended operational use.


           Transmission grids
           Digital technologies play a significant role in modern transmission grids. These
           technologies can increase the capacity and enhance the efficiency, reliability and
           flexibility of the grid, allowing it to handle higher loads and transmit electricity more
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                     PAGE | 32
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                               Chapter 1: State of play




           effectively. This can also help avoid the construction of new lines or assist in cases
           where line extension deployment is not fast enough.

           Dynamic line rating involves real-time monitoring of weather conditions and line
           temperatures to adjust the current carrying capacity of transmission lines
           accordingly. This technology allows lines to operate closer to their thermal limits
           safely instead of using fixed values, optimising and increasing transmission
           capacity.

           FACTS such as static VAR compensators (SVCs) or Static Synchronous
           Compensators (STATCOMs) are power electronics-based devices that enable
           real-time control of power flows, voltage levels and other stability characteristics.
           They can modulate the generation of reactive power depending on need, further
           enhancing power transmission capacity and grid stability. Currently, these power
           electronics devices are relatively uncommon, with higher deployment observed in
           Europe and Australia. However, as the share of renewable energy sources
           increases and demand grows for load flow control and grid quality assurance, they
           will become increasingly prevalent. Combined with energy storage systems, such
           as batteries and supercapacitors, these systems can provide rapid response
           capabilities to support grid frequency as they can quickly inject or absorb power
           to balance supply and demand variations and act as virtual inertia to stabilise the
           grid.

           HVDC is another significant technology that supports system operations by
           efficiently transporting large amounts of electricity and can provide functionalities
           for bidirectional load flow control and reactive power control, as well as assist with
           black-start processes. In particular the ability to control the power flow on the
           HVDC line provides a significant benefit in optimising the power flow distribution
           across the overall grid.

           Even if monitoring systems are already in place in transmission grids, such as the
           wide area management system (WAMS), they are now necessarily becoming
           larger and more integrated than in the past. This includes expanding to incorporate
           the monitoring of connected distribution grids whose complexity is increasing with
           the growing renewables penetration. In these systems embedded advanced
           analytics and artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms can process vast amounts of
           data to predict electricity demand patterns and potential grid issues. By
           anticipating demand peaks and identifying potential transmission bottlenecks,
           operators can take proactive measures to reinforce the grid and enhance its
           capacity.

           By attaching sensors to critical but also expensive assets such as transformers
           and circuit breakers, valuable feedback can be obtained regarding their health
           status. This enables proactive and preventive maintenance, as issues can be
           identified and addressed before they lead to costly failures. Consequently, having
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 33
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                Chapter 1: State of play




           a better understanding of the condition of these expensive assets helps optimise
           their usage, allowing them to be utilised to their limits without incurring additional
           risk of power shutdowns.

           The use of new technologies, such as drones and satellite-based technology, has
           revolutionised the inspection of power lines, both in transmission and distribution
           grids. Instead of relying on expensive helicopter rides, drones and satellite imaging
           can be deployed for line inspections. They capture pictures, videos and thermal
           images that can be automatically evaluated. This not only saves significant effort,
           but also enhances the safety of operational staff by minimising their exposure to
           potentially hazardous conditions during inspections.


           Cybersecurity
           Hand in hand with the development of digitalisation, it is also essential to look at
           the risks that it brings to the electricity grid. While digital technology brings
           numerous benefits, the increasing connection of digital devices means that the
           cyberattack surface will increase dramatically. At the same time, the system is
           becoming ever more complex with the rise of decentralised power sources and
           the interconnection of many entities through communication technologies.

           Electricity transmission systems are considered to be critical national
           infrastructure. Increasingly, cyberattacks are seen as a threat to their integrity. The
           2023 UK National Risk Register, for example, puts the likelihood of a cyberattack
           on critical infrastructure between 5% and 25%, ranking as moderate, with a
           potential impact of hundreds of millions of pounds in losses.

           In recent years, the number of cyber incidents has been increasing along with the
           progress of digitalisation, and there have been many cases in which cyberattacks
           on key infrastructure have caused major social disruption around the world. In the
           electricity sector in particular, it is essential to respond appropriately and promptly
           to these changes, as large-scale power outages directly affect human lives and
           property.

           A prominent example of this concern is the power outages that occurred in Ukraine
           in 2015 and 2016: the first outage in western Ukraine, including Kyiv, took up to
           six hours to restore and affected 225 000 people; in the second outage in Kyiv in
           December 2016, attackers disrupted power grid control equipment through
           unauthorised access, resulting in a 200 MW outage for about an hour. It should
           be noted that while the 2015 attack consisted of a multi-stage attack in which
           malware stole information and used it to remotely operate the control system, the
           2016 attack is believed to have involved malware directly manipulating power grid
           equipment. This indicates a marked increase in the sophistication of attack
           methods even within a short period.
                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 34
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                            Chapter 1: State of play




Total and electricity-related significant cybersecurity incidents per year

                        160
                                                                                                       Electricity-
Significant incidents




                                                                                                       related
                        140
                                                                                                       Other
                        120

                        100

                        80

                        60

                        40

                        20

                          0
                              2005           2010                2015             2020

                                                                                                  IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Source: IEA analysis based on CSIS (2023).



                         Another example of the unmanaged risks that growing digitalisation and
                         interconnectivity bring to secure electricity supply is the military cyberattack on a
                         satellite in February 2022, which caused as collateral damage approximately
                         5 800 wind turbines in Germany to lose their internet connections, making remote
                         monitoring and control difficult.

                         Energy generators requiring internet connectivity need proactive assessment to
                         identify and address any cybersecurity weaknesses. In solar PV and wind turbine
                         control portals, security gaps have been observed related to the internet access
                         router and lack of encrypted VPN connection usage. During load shedding, the
                         communication signals used to transmit the ripple technique for adjusting the
                         electrical output have been exposed to the risk of possible decryption and override
                         by third parties. This demonstrates a lack of sufficient cybersecurity protocols to
                         ensure the security of the power system as it expands.


Electrification and electricity security
                         Electrification accentuates the ever-increasing importance of electricity security.
                         We are starting to see the impacts of the rapidly changing energy landscape on
                         electricity grids and power system security. Unless we keep ahead of the changes,
                         we put at risk not only the achievement of decarbonisation targets, but also the
                         safeguarding of a secure electricity supply.
                                                                                                                      IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                           PAGE | 35
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                        Chapter 1: State of play




Society and the economy are increasingly reliant on
electricity
               Electricity is critical to all aspects of our lives: it drives our machinery and transport
               systems, it powers our IT and medical equipment and increases our comfort by
               providing light, cooling and heating. In short, electricity is essential for our
               societies’ prosperity, at the same level of priority as food and drinkable water. This
               reliance is only becoming more pronounced as electricity consumption and its
               share of final energy consumption continue to grow.

               In 2021, 43% of total final electricity consumption globally was consumed by the
               industrial sector, followed by the residential (27%) and service (20%) sectors.
               Global final consumption of electricity has nearly doubled since 2000 and has
               been growing continuously every year since 1990, with the exception of 2009 and
               2020 when the financial crisis and the Covid-19 pandemic, respectively, led to a
               decrease in demand. In 2022, despite the global energy crisis, electricity demand
               grew 2% year-on-year, driven by increases in EMDEs.


Global final electricity consumption by sector and electrification rate, 1992-2021
      12 000                                                                                      25%      Others
TWh




      10 000                                                                                               Commercial and
                                                                                                  20%      public services
                                                                                                           Residential
       8 000
                                                                                                  15%
                                                                                                           Transport
       6 000
                                                                                                           Industry
                                                                                                  10%
       4 000
                                                                                                           Electrification rate
                                                                                                           (right axis)
                                                                                                  5%
       2 000


          0                                                                                       0%
                1992-2001   2002-2011     2012-2021     1992-2011     2002-2011    2012-2021
                       Advanced economies                              EMDEs


                                                                                                              IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: “Others” includes agriculture/forestry, fishing and final consumption not specified elsewhere.
Source: IEA (2023), World Energy Statistics.



               Electricity’s share of global final energy consumption has grown to 21%, up from
               16% in 2000, and is the second highest after oil. This reflects its increasing
               importance in the global energy mix, a trend that is expected to continue. The
               growth in electricity demand is driven by increased electrification of end uses, as
               well as growing electricity access rates worldwide. Of the electricity used in
               buildings, 20% is used for cooling – increased activity and the use of air
               conditioning has led the use of cooling energy in buildings to more than double
               since 2000. Furthermore, the electrification of heating is on the rise as high gas
                                                                                                                                  IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                          PAGE | 36
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                               Chapter 1: State of play




           prices and concerns for energy security have fuelled a strong uptake in heat
           pumps, with global sales growing at double-digit rates for the second year in a row
           in 2022. Growing electrification reduces total energy use through efficiency and
           therefore augments national energy security and hedges against fossil fuel price
           volatility.

           The transport sector’s electricity consumption currently accounts for only a small
           share of total electricity consumption, and the global EV fleet accounted for less
           than half a percent of total final electricity consumption in 2022. However, the
           uptake of electrified transport, especially road transport, is well underway, with
           new EV sales records set every year. In places with high uptake, this can
           challenge grid hosting capacity – for example, in the Netherlands
           3 000 neighbourhoods will be unable to host new charging stations until 2025.

           Despite significant progress in the past decade, 10% of the population worldwide
           still lacks access to electricity, implying the need to keep expanding grid
           infrastructure and supply.

           These trends combined mean electricity is more central to our societies than ever.
           With growth in the electrification of end uses and electricity access set to continue,
           electricity’s importance is only expected to increase. Grid infrastructure must
           foster the use of electricity by becoming smart, inclusive and participatory
           platforms, promoting the engagement and interaction of all stakeholders, at the
           same time unlocking new, innovative business models, electricity services and
           shared value opportunities.


Grids are central to many power supply interruptions
           Increasing reliance on electricity adds to our vulnerability to outages and makes
           electricity security a growing priority. Power supply interruptions can lead to the
           loss of means of communication, safety mechanisms, life support devices, food
           storage, and temperature and light control, as well as – especially in urban
           environments – ventilation, sewage disposal and transport. In many countries, a
           majority of outages originate in distribution grids.

           Power outages are caused by the failure or insufficiency of generation or grids.
           They can be the result of technical and supply issues, natural threats, human
           interference, or a combination of these causes. In our assessment, the most
           common source of outages are localised failures of grid infrastructure, of which
           most occur on distribution grids. These are commonly caused by minor incidents
           such as tree growth interfering with power lines, equipment failure and weather
           conditions. While these outages typically do not have the severe consequences
           of the larger events that receive news coverage, they are often the largest
           determinant of service reliability.
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 37
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                              Chapter 1: State of play




Potential direct causes for power supply interruptions by segment of origin




                                                                                    IEA. CC BY 4.0.




           More widespread outages can be classified into three main categories depending
           on their characteristics: cascading blackouts, load shedding and long periods of
           electricity rationing. While these events typically account for a lower share of
           service interruptions in well-developed power systems, they require attention due
           to their potentially devastating consequences.

           Cascading blackouts or black system events refer to the large-scale collapse of
           all or part of the power system, triggered by an initial outage (generation or grid)
           that results in an increasing series of line overloads and tripping generators. For
           example, in October 2022 a tripped transmission line in Bangladesh resulted in a
           cascading series of power plants tripping, resulting in a blackout affecting around
           130 million customers. A high-voltage transmission line fire in March 2023 in
           Argentina triggered a safety system to turn off several power plants and lines,
           affecting 20 million people. Chinese Taipei also experienced a cascading blackout
           in May 2021 triggered by a transmission line fault. And a major power line in
           Kazakhstan was disconnected and caused a cross-border outage affecting
           Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.

           Load shedding is a last-resort measure where system operators disconnect load
           in a part of the power system to safeguard system balance. It is employed to arrest
           situations of cascading outage, to stabilise the system and minimise the number
           of customers affected. Load shedding can also be used to manage reduced
           generation availability, such as widespread outages in 2022 in Bangladesh and
           Pakistan due to fuel supply shortages, and high levels of demand that cannot be
           met by existing generation or grid capacity.

           Finally, long periods of electricity rationing occur due to chronic underinvestment
           in the power system, such as in South Africa, where factors such as supply
                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 38
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                             Chapter 1: State of play




           shortages and ageing grid infrastructure have resulted in increasingly high levels
           of load shedding since 2007, estimated at around 5% in 2022.

           Climate change is increasing the risk of outages due to the increased frequency,
           severity and distribution of extreme weather events. Electricity networks are the
           leading cause of climate-driven outages in many countries and are considered the
           element of the power system most vulnerable to climate impacts. For instance,
           cyclones, extreme cold spells and heatwaves can cause power outages due to
           grid damage and supply-demand imbalances, risking loss of life due to the inability
           to provide power for heating or cooling. The IEA’s Climate Resilience for Energy
           Security report shows that around one-quarter of global electricity networks are
           exposed to severe storms, and over 10% of the networks are exposed to tropical
           cyclones, notably in North America, Australia and East Asia. At the same time,
           close to half of global electricity networks are currently exposed to fire weather
           conditions for more than 50 days per year – and close to 18% of the global
           electricity network sees more than 200 fire weather days annually.


Grid reliability varies significantly around the world
           The reliability of electricity supply varies significantly between advanced
           economies and even more so when comparing EMDEs. Comparing the reliability
           of grids in different countries is challenging as datasets have varying levels of
           completeness and rarely explicitly differentiate between interruptions originating
           from generators or from transmission and distribution grids. In four countries that
           do provide this information – the United States, Japan, Australia and Chile – over
           90% of power supply interruptions originate in distribution grids. In the European
           Union, although comprehensive data for individual outage events is not available,
           when comparing reliability indicators across voltage levels it is evident that most
           outages originate in low-voltage grids. We would expect a similar pattern in
           regions that do not have significant power supply issues, such as chronic
           generation inadequacy or fuel shortages. In regions that do experience these
           issues, the share of supply interruptions due to grids is expected to be lower but
           remain significant.

           Overall outages for end users, commonly reported using the System Average
           Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) in annual outage hours per customer, show
           huge variations in supply reliability. Customers in high-outage EMDEs such as
           Iraq and Papua New Guinea experience around 40 times the average outage
           levels of most other EMDEs, which in turn are still around three times the
           interruptions of India and the United States and around fifteen times China and
           the European Union.

           There are also considerable differences in reliability between advanced
           economies, which typically range from well below one to around six hours of
                                                                                                       IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 39
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                            Chapter 1: State of play




                              outage on average per year, although these may be affected by a lack of
                              harmonisation in data collection and reporting. For instance, the duration threshold
                              (in minutes) after which a non-momentary outage is integrated into the reporting
                              can vary significantly, as can the mechanisms to detect outages and the weighting
                              method of the event impacts to reach the overall distribution area indicator. A lack
                              of complete and harmonised outage data collection is a barrier to improving
                              reliability through targeted measures as well as international knowledge sharing.
                              For example, the increasing trend of power supply interruptions in the
                              United States (which more than doubled between 2013 and 2021) led the
                              government to launch an initiative to improve reliability through better outage
                              monitoring data.


End-user power supply interruption indicators by country/region, 2016-2020 average

                     20                                                                                                         800




                                                                                                           SAIDI (hours/year)
SAIDI (hours/year)




                     18                                                                                                         700
                     16
                                                                                                                                600
                     14
                                                                                                                                500
                     12

                     10                                                                                                         400

                     8
                                                                                                                                300
                     6
                                                                                                                                200
                     4

                     2                                                                                                          100

                     0                                                                                                            0
                          United States   China   India   Japan      European     Other     Other EMDEs*                              High-outage
                                                                      Union     advanced                                                EMDEs
                                                                                economies



                                                                                                           IEA. All rights reserved.
* “Other EMDEs” exclude high-outage EMDEs.
Notes: High-outage EMDEs comprise all countries with more than 100 annual outage hours on average per customer, over
the 2016-2020 period. SAIDI = System Average Interruption Duration Index. EIA data were used for the United States and
World Bank data were used for all other countries. World Bank data are based on surveys. Given the possible differences
in reporting standards and coverage, the values presented refer to general trends and do not necessarily reflect precise
comparisons between countries.
Sources: IEA analysis based on World Bank (2020), Doing Business 2020; EIA (2023), Reliability Metrics of U.S.
Distribution System.




Grid-originated outages cause significant economic
losses
                              Grid-related outages are having major economic impacts around the world. Our
                              estimates indicate that grid-originated technical/equipment failures alone caused
                              outages that amounted to a global economic loss of at least USD 100 billion in
                              2021. The majority of the direct economic losses due to outages arise from lost
                              productivity at businesses due to interruptions, supply chain interruptions and
                              potential damage to equipment. More indirect economic losses, such as those
                                                                                                                                                    IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                                  PAGE | 40
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                    Chapter 1: State of play




            from fuel consumption in back-up diesel generators, can also be significant
            depending on the region – for example, in Nigeria 40% of electricity is produced
            from back-up generation.


Estimated economic impact of grid-related outages by cause as a share of GDP in
selected countries, 2021


  0.25%                                                   USD 54 billion


  0.20%                                                                         USD 31 billion
                                    USD 1.3 billion                                                   USD 2.4 billion
  0.15%

               USD 3.6 billion
  0.10%


  0.05%


  0.00%
                Germany                Türkiye            United States             China               Australia

                                 Technical/equipment                 Human               Nature

                                                                                                    IEA. All rights reserved.
Note: The reasons for outages can be grouped into three main categories: technical failures due to equipment, outages
caused by human interference, and outages due to uncontrollable nature-related factors such as weather, animals, trees
and natural catastrophes.
Sources: IEA analysis based on.Bundesnetzagentur (2021), Electricity Metrics; Epiaş Seffaflık Platformu (2021), Failure
Information; Department of Energy (2021), Annual Summaries; Power Reliability Management and Project Quality
Supervision Center, National Energy Administration (2022), 2021 National Electric Power Reliability Annual Report;
AusGrid (2021), Past Outage Data; World Bank (2021), Value lost due to electrical outages (% of sales for affected firms).



            The main causes of these impacts can vary significantly between countries. In
            regions that face less frequent extreme weather events (for example, Europe), a
            large share of grid-related outages can be traced back to technical failure related
            to ageing equipment. Common sources of technical failure are power
            transformers, instrument transformers and cables. In other regions more subject
            to natural phenomena such as high precipitation levels, storms, monsoons and
            tornadoes, natural disasters and weather events can account for a comparatively
            higher share of the grid-level outages. Human-related factors such as accidental
            damage, faulty installations and vandalism remain significant in many regions,
            with a notable trend in some countries toward increasing theft, vandalism and
            cyberattacks on grids.

            This highlights the role of grid infrastructure in minimising power outages and the
            associated economic loss. As the specific cause and segment of origin of those
            grid-level failures can vary significantly between countries, the priorities for
            electricity security and resilience may lie in different directions, for example
            network redundancy, reinforcement, modernisation or digitalisation. Harmonised
                                                                                                                                IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                         PAGE | 41
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                              Chapter 1: State of play




           and comprehensive data on outages – including where they originated and their
           cause – help to identify these priorities. Overall, secure power supply can only be
           achieved with sufficient, well-maintained and well-monitored grid infrastructure in
           combination with sufficient generation resources, at the same time supported by
           advancing system efficiency, demand-side measures and the benefit of new
           technologies.


Electricity decarbonisation and grid
connectivity
Delays in grid development are hindering the connection
of new wind and solar projects
           Policy incentives and declining costs have led to dramatic increases in solar and
           wind capacity, helping to decarbonise the power sector. New projects need to
           apply for grid connection and then wait for approval before they can proceed.
           Some projects in the connection approval queue are at an advanced stage in the
           connection process and provide a strong indication of the project pipeline.
           However, other projects may only give an indication of developer interest, since in
           many countries grid queue applications may require minimal paperwork and fees.

           Combined, the United States, Spain, Brazil, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom,
           Germany, Australia, Mexico, Chile, India and Colombia currently have grid
           connection requests totalling nearly 3 TW of solar PV, wind, hydropower and
           bioenergy capacity. We estimate that around 1 500 GW of this total are wind and
           solar projects at an advanced stage with a connection agreement in place or under
           active review, equivalent to 5 times the capacity additions of solar PV and wind in
           2022. Of these, 500 GW are late-stage projects that have either signed connection
           agreements or are in the final stages of this process and have a high chance of
           grid connection in the next five years if they continue to be financially pursued by
           developers. The late-stage projects are equivalent to around 40% of total
           renewable energy capacity that is currently installed in all the surveyed countries.
           Unsurprisingly, considerable investment in grid infrastructure is needed to
           accommodate many of these new renewable projects.

           Meanwhile, around 1 000 GW of projects are under active connection review to
           determine their viability and what, if any, grid upgrades would be required – the
           need for additional grid development could potentially stall these projects. Finally,
           the remaining nearly 1 500 GW of wind and solar PV plants are still in early-stage
           development and are less likely to become operational in the medium term. In
           many cases these applications may only represent an early expression of interest
           and projects may require additional feasibility studies, which could prolong the
           process and increase the financial burden for developers.
                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 42
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                      Chapter 1: State of play




              Connecting the significant capacity of advanced PV and wind projects requesting
              grid connection would require major transmission and distribution grid expansion
              in the short term. For instance, in Spain building all solar and wind projects that
              have been granted grid clearance today would nearly triple current installed
              capacity. Deploying solar and wind projects currently at the late stage would
              increase year-end 2022 installed capacity by over 45% in Italy and the
              United States, over 35% in the United Kingdom, nearly 35% in Japan, 22% in
              Mexico, 16% in Brazil, 10% in Australia, Germany, India and Chile, and 1% in
              Colombia. This large number of renewable projects at a late connection study
              stage testifies to both the strong interest of developers and the success of recent
              policies in spurring renewable energy development. While not all these projects
              are guaranteed to connect, the high levels of new capacity from those that do
              connect will put further strain on transmission and distribution grids in these
              markets.


Capacity of renewable energy projects in connection queues, selected countries by
technology

                  Connection queues                                      Late-stage projects by country
GW




      2 000                                             450
      1 800                                             400
      1 600                                             350
      1 400                                             300
                                                        250
      1 200
                                                        200
      1 000
                                                        150
        800                                             100
        600                                              50
        400                                               0
        200
          0
              Solar PV   Wind    Bioenergy   Hydro
                                                           Solar PV                          Wind
     Late-stage   Under review   Early stage/unlikely      Bioenergy                         Hydro
                                                           Renewable installed capacty
                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes (right): All capacity presented is sourced from publicly available country-level connection queue data. US capacity
comprises connection queue data from the CAISO, ERCOT, MISO, PJM, NYISO, ISO-NE and SPP interconnections,
Appalachian Electric Cooperative, Arizona Public Service, Black Hills Colorado Electric, Bonneville Power District, Cheyenne
Light, Fuel & Power, City of Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, Duke Carolinas, Duke Florida, Duke Progress, El
Paso Electric, Florida Light and Power, Georgia Transmission Company, Imperial Irrigation District, Idaho Power,
Jacksonville Electric Department, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company, NV Energy, Portland
General Electric, Public Service Company of New Mexico, Platte River Power Authority, Santee Cooper, Southern Electric
Corporation of Mississippi, Southern Company, Salt River Project, Tucson Electric Power, Tri-State Generation and
Transmission, Tennessee Valley Authority, and Western Power Administration; Spain: RED Eléctrica; Japan: Hokkaido
Electric Power Network, Grid connection status of renewable energy projects; Tohoku Electric Power Network, Grid
connection status of renewable energy projects; TEPCO Power Grid, Grid connection status of renewable energy projects;
Chubu Electric Power Grid, Grid connection status of renewable energy projects; Hokuriku Electric Power Transmission &
Distribution, Grid connection status of renewable energy projects; Kansai Transmission and Distribution, Grid connection
status of renewable energy projects; Chugoku Electric Power Transmission & Distribution, Grid connection status of
renewable energy projects; Shikoku Electric Power Transmission & Distribution, Grid connection status of renewable energy
projects; Kyushu Electric Power Transmission and Distribution, Grid connection status of renewable energy projects;
Okinawa Electric Power, Grid connection status of renewable energy projects; Brazil: ANEEL; Italy: TERNA, UK: Ofgem;
Germany: Bundesnetzagentur; Australia: AEMO; Mexico: CENACE; Chile: CEN; Colombia: UPME; India: connection data
estimated based on CEA transmission build-out planning.
                                                                                                                                IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                         PAGE | 43
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                              Chapter 1: State of play




           At the moment, the rapid development of generation capacity, and particularly
           renewables, is outpacing investment in the necessary transmission and
           distribution grid upgrades, potentially impacting long-term expansion of
           renewables. This surge in capital flows and investment signifies a crucial outcome
           of the global energy crisis, as it has expedited the adoption of clean energy
           technologies.

           Lack of grid availability has hindered rapid renewable energy growth in some
           markets. In the Netherlands, grid congestion due to high solar PV and wind
           capacity additions has made some regions unable to accept new capacity during
           the period 2021-2029, with grid upgrades planned for 2026-2029. In Hawaii,
           rooftop solar installations were effectively halted in 2013 due to system concerns,
           but were later resumed after potential grid upgrades were found to enable
           additional capacity. In South Africa, the latest renewable energy auction round
           awarded no onshore wind capacity, as all proposed projects were in areas with no
           grid availability. In the United States, the interconnection backlog in the PJM
           region has resulted in the regional transmission organisation suspending the
           review of new connection applications until 2026.

           Current policy initiatives that have increased the share of renewable energy in the
           power mix will add to the amount of capacity waiting to connect to the grid. This
           will require grids to be upgraded so that they can accept new capacity, move
           generation from areas of high potential to demand centres, and have the ability to
           provide flexibility services. Interim policy solutions to enable capacity deployment
           in the short term must be matched with longer-term planning and investment
           efforts to facilitate future development.


Grid congestion is increasing system operation costs
and renewable curtailment
           Grid congestion is increasingly becoming a concern among system operators and
           policy makers alike. This issue arises when electricity transfer capacity is not
           enough to transmit all available power from one point on the grid to another.

           The optimal dispatch of a generation fleet, that is, deciding how much power each
           plant produces at any moment, is typically determined on a cost minimisation
           principle, although not all countries necessarily apply economic least-cost
           dispatch. The cost minimisation principle means that the cheapest generation is
           dispatched as much as possible before the next expensive one. When there are
           constraints in the grid (lack of transfer capacity), however, a divergence may
           occur. If the cheapest generation cannot be transferred, it should not be produced
           because it would compromise grid security. In that case, more expensive
           generation needs to be dispatched to meet power demand, accounting for grid
           congestion. This is an example of what is referred to as congestion management.
                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 44
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                               Chapter 1: State of play




           Other specific examples include curtailment of power generation, the use of
           storage technologies and local flexibility markets, and flexible connection
           agreements.

           Where the system operator owns and operates the generators as well as the grid,
           in a vertically integrated utility structure, it may simply control the output of the
           power plants to achieve a dispatch that balances power flows in the grid. This is
           prevalent in EMDEs. In cases where the grid operator and generation
           owner/operator are separate entities, the co-ordination of the dispatch and grid
           constraints may be managed by zonal price signals, or by calling for divergence
           from generation schedules – such as by using redispatch and curtailment.

           Although some level of congestion can be present in cost-optimised dispatch,
           persistently high congestion indicates a structural imbalance that can endanger
           electricity security, substantially increase operational costs and affect the
           development of new power plants. In recognition of its increasing impact, and to
           understand better how to design a common framework to approach the issue,
           ACER carried out a consultation process in 2023 on the definition of structural
           congestion. Indeed, designing a solution requires first an adequate measurement
           of the problem.


           Grid congestion management
           Regardless of the existence (and design) of a market, grid congestion typically
           incurs system operation costs, implying an increase in the costs of electricity itself
           and what consumers pay. This is because measures need to be taken in moments
           of congestion to avoid inadvertent overloading of grid assets, which could lead to
           a breach of grid security.

           Overloading of transmission and distribution lines can be caused by several
           factors, including insufficient infrastructure capacity, but also temporary events –
           for example, extreme weather – leading to surges in electricity demand or supply
           or causing equipment failure. System operators take several measures to manage
           these kinds of overloading risks in transmission grids, either ahead of dispatch or
           through remedial actions in real-time operation. All of these measures come with
           associated costs.

           First, when making dispatch decisions, system operators can take into account
           grid constraints and reduce overload risks. Market designs such as zonal or nodal
           pricing (for example, the PJM nodal market in the United States) incorporate grid
           capacities to some extent. The initial dispatch under a uniform pricing market
           scheme within a large bidding zone (such as in Germany) can require more real-
           time modifications since it does not consider grid constraints within a sub-area. In
           Australia, constraint equations are applied in the dispatch process to take into
           account structural grid constraints. Similarly, in Europe the transmission
           constraints at country borders are considered when harmonising national level
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 45
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                                                       Chapter 1: State of play




                                           dispatches across the region. Yet again in some cases, locational signals in tariff
                                           systems may be used to steer development of new generation and load to avoid
                                           congestion. In this case the congestion management cost is a higher dispatch cost
                                           compared to a situation without any grid constraints.

                                           Second, in real time, remedial actions can be taken by system operators to avoid
                                           overloads. Any system operator can implement command and control measures
                                           such as curtailing generation, activating demand response reserves,
                                           implementing load shedding, and other power flow control techniques. Further,
                                           operators in markets such as the integrated European electricity market can
                                           leverage market trading techniques such as countertrading (cross-zonal
                                           exchange) initiated by system operators between two bidding zones to alleviate
                                           physical constraints. The costs of these measures are in lost production revenues
                                           for generators, and higher cost of the procurement of electrical energy by system
                                           operators from markets, which is passed through to consumers in the electricity
                                           tariff.

                                           Congestion management cost data are not always explicitly collected and
                                           reported. Especially in countries where the system operator owns/operates the
                                           generators as well as the grid, the costs are considered a matter of internal
                                           accounting. In markets where system operators are obliged to report the costs,
                                           the indicators may also differ based on the prevalent congestion management
                                           technique. Nevertheless, for the reduced group of systems that do report them, an
                                           estimate of the grid congestion costs can be obtained by adding up the direct costs
                                           of remedial actions implemented, and the congestion rents collected by operators
                                           due to nodal/zonal price differences.


Annual transmission grid congestion cost estimates for selected markets, 2019-2022
                                      25                                                                                                         10
Annual transmission grid congestion




                                                                                                                                                      Congestion cost per demand served



                                      20                                                                                                         8
         costs (billion USD)




                                                                                                                                                                 (USD/MWh)




                                      15                                                                                                         6


                                      10                                                                                                         4


                                      5                                                                                                          2


                                       0                                                                                                         0
                                             2019   2020   2021     2022   2019      2020    2021     2022     2019   2020    2021       2022
                                                    United States                     Germany                         Great Britain
                                                                       Total costs          Unit costs (right axis)

                                                                                                                                      IEA. All rights reserved.
Notes: The transmission grid congestion cost estimates presented refer to the values reported by the corresponding
sources, and due to differing market characteristics, they should not be used for direct comparison of congestion levels
across countries. For Great Britain’s cost estimates, the costs reflect only the transmission constraint expenses of its
Balancing Mechanism.
Sources: IEA analysis based on Grid Strategies (2023), Transmission Congestion Costs in the U.S. RTOs;
Bundesnetzagentur (2023), Netznengpassmanagement; National Grid ESO (2023), Monthly Balancing Services Summary.
                                                                                                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                                                      PAGE | 46
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                  Chapter 1: State of play




              In Germany, congestion management costs have shown an increasing trend,
              reaching more than EUR 4 billion per year in 2022 – equivalent to investing in
              about 4.5 1 GW of new solar PV capacity. At the same time, a recent United States
              study estimated that transmission grid congestion costs in the country more than
              tripled from over USD 6 billion in 2019 to almost USD 21 billion in 2022 –
              equivalent to about 18.5 2 GW of new solar PV capacity. In winter 2021/22 alone
              (November-March), Great Britain spent almost GBP 1 billion due to balancing in
              response to transmission constraints.

              The transmission congestion cost estimates presented highlight the relevance of
              adequate levels of investment in grids to reduce system costs. More grid capacity
              would resolve congestion and the need to apply costly congestion management
              measures. Although the operational costs are only a fraction of the cost of building
              a new transmission line, cumulative operational costs from structural congestion
              need to be actively assessed as they can be high enough to justify investment in
              infrastructure additions or upgrades. Therefore, it can be relevant to incorporate a
              total expenditure approach – not just capital or operational costs – together with
              an assessment of the potential benefits, to decide if further grid upgrades are the
              most efficient measure to mitigate cost increases in each particular case.

              Besides, on top of additional operational costs with existing infrastructure, many
              generation projects, particularly renewables, could see worsening (or simply
              infeasible) business cases due to congestion. Grid congestion can result in the
              curtailment of renewables in certain areas, which usually means firing more
              expensive and carbon-intensive thermal plants elsewhere. This can lead to
              increasing connection queues for generation projects if there is already
              congestion, or to project developers cancelling plans if they deem their investment
              too risky – both potentially resulting in lost value of renewable resources.
              Recognising this, at least within the European Union, full compensation for grid-
              related curtailment was declared mandatory in 2019.

              Particularly at the distribution level, it is challenging to address congestion with
              pricing mechanisms. The congestion point in a distribution grid can be managed
              only by the specific resources in the right location, which requires high levels of
              digitalisation such as an information platform, supervising/monitoring system and
              remote control system. This means that distribution grids must be expanded and
              reinforced in order to deliver the output generated from the renewable energy
              sources connected at that level to the higher voltage level grid, as it is difficult to
              resolve congestion by managing local resources.




1
    Based on an estimated installation cost for solar PV in Germany of USD 996/kW.
2
    Based on an estimated installation cost for solar PV in the United States of USD 1 119/kW.
                                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                           PAGE | 47
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                                                                              Chapter 1: State of play




            Curtailment of variable renewables
            One of the measures available to system operators, both before and during real-
            time operation, is to curtail renewable electricity. This can happen, for example,
            due to a system-wide demand-supply imbalance (either due to unusually low
            demand or excess supply), due to grid congestion in particular corridors, or to
            preserve system stability. While lower levels of curtailment can be considered part
            of the normal operation of a power system, high levels of curtailment can indicate
            the need for new measures to be implemented. As curtailment may result in a
            significant loss of value, particularly as variable renewables have zero marginal
            costs and produce low-emission electricity, renewable curtailment should
            generally be one of the last-resort options used by system operators.

            Renewable electricity curtailment has reached significant levels in some countries
            in recent years, resulting in significant lost value of renewable resources. From a
            sample of ten markets with strong renewable power uptake in recent years,
            representing about 55% of global solar PV and wind generation, renewable
            curtailment stood at a share of 3% in 2021. This amounted to about 40 TWh –
            equivalent to the annual electricity demand of New Zealand.


Annual technical curtailment of variable renewables in selected countries, 2022
  40%
  35%
  30%
  25%
  20%
  15%
  10%
   5%
   0%
                       Curtailment




                                                 Curtailment




                                                                           Curtailment




                                                                                                        Curtailment




                                                                                                                                  Curtailment




                                                                                                                                                            Curtailment




                                                                                                                                                                                      Curtailment
           VRE share




                                     VRE share




                                                               VRE share




                                                                                           VRE share




                                                                                                                      VRE share




                                                                                                                                                VRE share




                                                                                                                                                                          VRE share




                 China                 Australia                      Chile                      Spain                 Germany                       Ireland                 United
                                                                                                                                                                            Kingdom
                                                               2019                 2020               2021              2022

                                                                                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: Values for Australia only consider the National Electricity Market. Values for Spain include wind, solar PV, biomass
and solar thermal generation. Estimates for the United Kingdom only include wind power. Technical curtailment refers to
the dispatch-down of renewable electricity for network or system reasons. Dispatched-down energy due to economic or
market conditions is not included in this chart.
Sources: IEA (2023), Renewables Market Update June 2023.



            There is a direct link between renewable curtailment caused by grid congestion
            and (the lack of) progress on transmission and distribution capacity deployment.
            Even though some complementary solutions such as electricity storage via flexible
            EV charging can be beneficial, investing in grids will in many cases be essential
                                                                                                                                                                                                    IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                                                         PAGE | 48
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                              Chapter 1: State of play




           to unlock the full potential of renewable resources. For instance, strong
           deployment of transmission capacity in China from 2013 was a key element in
           enabling the country to reduce VRE curtailment rates from over 15% in 2012 to
           less than 5% today. In other markets, such as the United Kingdom and Chile, slow
           progress in transmission projects connecting areas with strong variable renewable
           resources has led to high VRE shares translating into high rates of VRE
           curtailment. Generally, well-targeted grid enhancements on specific corridors
           could help alleviate this issue significantly, as resource-endowed areas for
           renewable production are generally far from consumption centres.


Technical grid losses are stabilising around the world,
while non-technical losses remain to be addressed
           Losses in transmission and distribution systems are the result of several factors
           and many years of development. As system losses increase, so does the
           electricity generation required to meet the same level of demand. While they
           remain region-specific and vary widely, lower levels of losses typically indicate a
           more efficient system. Factors including population density, climate, grid planning,
           levels of investment, share of renewables and the structure of electricity demand
           all affect the percentage of total generation that reaches end users. However, as
           these factors and their relative weight are different for each balancing zone, there
           is no single ideal number for grid losses.

           In regions with a lower population density, the grid is often more spread out,
           meaning that electricity travels further from generation stations to end-use centres.
           While technologies such as HVDC lines are designed to minimise losses related
           to long-distance transmission, spread out systems nonetheless typically incur
           higher losses compared to more compact ones, in particular due to longer, more
           radial distribution networks. Climate has an impact here too, wherein higher
           temperatures increase losses, especially for overhead lines, which are more
           exposed to these shifts than underground cables. Temperature fluctuations as
           well as weather-related incidents affect annual losses, and for this reason single-
           year data may diverge from regional averages.

           Grid planning and investment play a key role in setting out a path for minimising
           future losses, especially as levels of demand and renewables are set to increase.
           Without proper planning to reduce congestion and adapt grids for higher demand
           met by more distributed renewable electricity generation, losses in future grids will
           increase. In systems with adequate transmission and distribution development
           planning, the overall percentage of losses typically decreases as the system
           becomes more advanced. An exception to the decrease in losses occurs when
           higher loading of existing equipment is tolerated through the application of
           technologies like dynamic line rating and high-temperature low-sag (HTLS)
           conductors. These technologies can increase losses but offset them by avoiding
           the need for new infrastructure buildout.
                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 49
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                             Chapter 1: State of play




Technical grid losses as a share of total electricity generation by country/region, 2022
   20%                                                                                World


   15%                                                                                Advanced
                                                                                      economies

   10%                                                                                EMDEs


    5%


    0%




                                                                                   IEA. CC BY 4.0.




           Globally, technical grid losses accounted for over 2 100 TWh of generation in 2022
           which corresponds with global average losses of just under 8%. This reflects quite
           high efficiency for many systems today, but these levels vary between countries
           and reducing losses in the long term remains a key objective of grid planning for
           many regions. Advanced economies have recorded losses just over 6% in 2022,
           while the average for EMDEs was just under 9%. Within these, however, there are
           notable examples, with India reporting one of the highest level of losses at close
           to 20%, while losses in China have fallen to around 4%, within the range of
           advanced economies. Korea and Japan consistently record some of the lowest
           level of losses, with both under 5% in recent years. This wide variation between
           regions reflects not simply the level of grid development, but also the combination
           of factors that determine overall technical losses.

           Beyond technical losses in the physical grid equipment, there are also non-
           technical losses in distribution grids that primarily include theft and non-metered
           consumption. Non-technical losses are a more significant concern in EMDEs,
           although they can occur in any region as they are related to the efficiency of the
           monitoring and control of electricity consumption. They often occur as a result of
           bypassing or tampering with meters and illegal connections, which may be linked
           to socio-economic conditions. They can also be the result of metering errors, often
           a consequence of automatic/manual error in meter reading or due to defects,
           breakdown or incorrect installation and configuration of the meter.


Grid permitting and construction times
           As energy generation increasingly relies on utility-scale wind and solar PV
           systems, which are often situated far from heavily populated cities and
                                                                                                       IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 50
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                      Chapter 1: State of play




            consumption hubs, the transmission of this energy over long distances becomes
            essential. Deploying these critical links between generation and electricity service
            is complex, involves multiple stakeholders and can take many years. Large
            transmission system projects can take a decade or more to complete, often much
            longer than the new wind and solar PV assets that connect to them.

            Typical approval and construction times for power lines vary widely. It is not
            uncommon for a single extra-high-voltage overhead line (above 220 kV) to take 5
            to 13 years to go through permitting and construction in advanced economies,
            depending on the length of the line and other factors. Lower-voltage projects are
            generally faster and can last four to eight years, while distribution grid projects are
            usually completed within four years.


Typical deployment time for electricity grids, solar PV, wind and EV charging stations

         Utility solar PV                                                                                 China

          Onshore wind                                                                                    India

          Offshore wind                                                                                   European Union

      Car charging hub                                                                                    United States

    Truck charging hub

        Distribution line

       High-voltage line

 Extra-high-voltage line

                                          3                6                9                12
                                                                                     Years

                                                                                                             IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: Ranges reflect typical projects commissioned in the last three years. Distribution line = 1‐36 kV overhead line.
Transmission is split between high-voltage line = 36‐220 kV overhead line; and extra‐high-voltage line = 220‐765 kV
overhead line. To date, India has not developed offshore wind projects.



            Significantly shorter lead times for transmission lines are observed in China and
            India compared to advanced economies. In China, this is primarily due to
            centralised decision-making and the government's prioritisation strategy aiming to
            connect the eastern load centres with renewable energy-rich northern and western
            provinces through UHV lines. Similarly in India, the government has been
            prioritising the rapid development of inter- and intra-state transmission capacity
            though national programmes (e.g. Green Energy Corridor), supported by
            significant investment. Dedicated policy tools have helped fast-track the buildout
            of thousands of kilometres of lines in record time, driven initially by pressing
            concerns about electricity security and more recently by ambitious targets to
            evacuate green power from renewable energy zones.
                                                                                                                                IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                          PAGE | 51
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                             Chapter 1: State of play




           In advanced economies, like the United States and the European Union, more
           attention is paid to permitting and public engagement processes, which explains
           a significant share of the differences in lead times. These processes include tools
           that can be used by stakeholders to legally oppose new infrastructure projects,
           which can produce delays in the establishment of new projects, while being
           essential to ensure adequate consideration of citizens’ perspectives.


Grid expansion projects are associated with a high risk
of delays
           Power grid project development typically goes through three phases, comprising
           scoping, permitting and construction. Delays are frequently encountered in each
           of these phases, especially for high-voltage interconnections, which further add to
           the already long lead times associated with these projects.


Phases of grid infrastructure project development and potential causes of delay




                                                                                   IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Source: IEA analysis, ENTSO-E, European Commission.



           In the scoping phase, infrastructure projects, regardless of their nature, can
           encounter financial challenges depending on the business model they rely on.
           Power transmission and distribution projects, for instance, often operate within a
           regulated assets business model that imposes controls on revenues and
           investment returns. While several developed economies have established
           mechanisms to support the financing of such projects, emerging markets often
           face obstacles due to the high cost of capital and struggles in attracting private
                                                                                                       IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 52
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                Chapter 1: State of play




           investment. In Africa, where many state-owned utilities are in a precarious
           financial state, private participation in grids is not widely authorised and high risks
           related to political instability, corruption and vandalism often come with grid
           projects.

           Unlike local projects, such as wind farms and solar PV systems, power grid
           projects often involve multiple authorities and jurisdictions along the entire route,
           which all need to review and accept the plans before granting approval. Route
           plans and reports, feasibility studies and soil reports must be prepared, conditions
           and specifications must be evaluated, and stakeholders involved over the entire
           planned path. For instance, the construction of the 340 km long Ultranet direct
           current line in Germany requires around 13 500 permits. Significant delays can
           result from complexities in the permitting procedure, such as overloaded staff
           members at permitting agencies, flawed government agency review processes,
           subjective interpretation or insufficient review of relevant regulations by
           government officials, complex land use change requirements, and estimation
           errors. In Europe, over a quarter of electricity projects of common interest (PCIs)
           are subject to delay, most frequently due to permit granting. Similar difficulties are
           observed in countries like the United States and Australia as well.

           A lack of societal support can also considerably increase lead times, including the
           absence of a broad consensus among political parties and interest groups on long-
           term goals and a strategic vision for energy infrastructure. In particular, changes
           in government can slow down or halt project development. Opposition from local
           stakeholders and environmentalists, and indigenous groups, frequently impede or
           halt projects, especially when there is inadequate prior communication and
           consultation. According to ENTSO-E, the most discussed issues driving public
           opposition include the visual aspects, human and animal health, audible noise and
           biodiversity. In such cases, it may become necessary to reassess and replan the
           route, and give consideration to the use of undergrounding of some sections,
           essentially restarting the entire process and work involved.

           Additionally, delays can occur due to equipment delivery limitations and technical
           constraints. The duration of the construction phase is mainly reliant on the
           manufacturing slots available for key components such as power transformers and
           cables or highly specialised equipment like HVDC valves, which typically have
           long production lead times. A shortage of transformers has been ongoing since
           2021 amid supply chain disruption and rising demand, resulting in projects delays
           and skyrocketing prices (a 400% price increase has been reported for pad-
           mounted transformers, compared with 2020). The US power utility sector warned
           authorities in late 2022 about the shortage of distribution-level transformers, for
           which procurement times had risen from between two and four months to more
           than a year.
                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 53
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                              Chapter 1: State of play




           Moreover, the limited availability of specialised equipment and skilled trades
           during the installation process of transmission lines is often a bottleneck. This is
           especially noticeable for offshore infrastructure installation, where specialised
           vessels and working platforms are typically reserved well in advance, sometimes
           more than a year ahead. Although the worldwide fleet of cable-laying vessels has
           been increasing consistently over the past 20 years in response to growing
           demand, the construction workers and technicians typically need specific
           certifications and training, such as those for operating offshore, working at
           elevated heights, or dealing with electrical systems.




      Examples of large transmission grid projects facing major delays
      The Südlink transmission project, expected to carry wind power from northern to
      southern Germany, was the subject of early planning discussions back in 2014. It
      had to be revised to employ underground cables in place of the planned overhead
      lines to gain public acceptance, a configuration which was not considered from the
      outset of the project The revision led to an estimated threefold increase in project
      costs and a three-year delay on the initial 2022 deadline, initially set to match the
      shutting down of the last German nuclear reactors. Completion is now targeted in
      2026 and could be further delayed.
      The 400 km Bay of Biscay interconnector between France and Spain announced
      in 2017 is now expected for 2028 instead of 2025 after seeing a revision in its
      planned route due to instability of the seabed. This diversion from the original route
      and the current tensions in the commodity market led to a 63% increase in project
      costs and a new cost allocation between France and Spain.
      In the United States, the SunZia HVDC line between New Mexico and Arizona is
      due to enter the construction phase during summer 2023, 17 years after the project
      started, having struggled to obtain right-of-way permits along its 885 km planned
      route. On the east coast, the construction of the Avangrid transmission
      line from Canada to New England was interrupted in 2021 following a referendum
      by Maine residents in 2021, before a court overturned the referendum decision in
      April 2023.
      The Australian Energy Market Operator highlighted in its 2022 Integrated System
      Plan the further postponement of the Marinus link whose feasibility studies date
      back to 2017. This HVDC line, connecting Tasmania to the mainland, is now
      projected to achieve full operation no earlier than 2031. The project also faces
      opposition from an Aboriginal group residing in the areas traversed by the planned
      route, which claimed not to have been adequately included in the planning
      process.
                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 54
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                             Chapter 1: State of play




      In Africa, a high-voltage transmission line to export electricity from the Inga Dam
      III in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to South Africa has yet to start
      construction, a decade after an agreement was signed between the two countries.
      The megaproject has been facing financing hurdles due to the withdrawal of initial
      investors and is suffering from a lack of support by local communities.
      The intra-state transmission system component of India’s Green Energy Corridor
      programme started in 2015, consisting of more than 9 700 km of lines. Despite
      having been very efficient at driving forward the country’s grid expansion, the
      project has been delayed and given multiple extensions due to several factors,
      including right-of-way issues, delays in substation land acquisition, court cases and
      forest clearances.




Grids and employment
            Grid-related employment is concentrated in regions where project expansion is
            taking place. China and India currently account for around half of all jobs in
            transmission and distribution grids, where grid networks have grown by over 40%
            over the past decade.


Grid-related jobs by regional distribution and economic sector, 2022
                  Share of jobs by region                                                    Total employment
                                                                                         9
                Rest of world
                                                                       Million workers




                                 North America
                    6%                11%                                                8
   Other Asia
    Pacific                                  Central and South                           7
      10%                                        America
                                                    6%                                   6

                                                                                         5
                                                  Europe
                                                   13%                                   4
    India
    20%                                                                                  3

                                                                                         2
                                                  Africa
                                                   5%                                    1

                                                                                         0
                                China
                                                                       Manufacturing         Construction     Utilities   Other
                                29%

                                                                                                                   IEA. CC BY 4.0.




            Globally, most of the jobs in transmission and distribution are concentrated in the
            utilities sector, followed by the construction sector. The split across these
            economic sectors is similar in both EMDEs and developed economies. Yet, in
            countries that have experienced rapid expansion of their power grids in recent
            years, such as China, both construction and manufacturing sectors account for a
                                                                                                                                       IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                           PAGE | 55
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                               Chapter 1: State of play




           much higher share of total grid-related jobs compared to the global average.
           Global employment in the sector is around 8 million jobs, representing over 10%
           of total energy employment.

           In Africa, power sector employment is also driven by objectives to achieve
           universal access to electricity, making the production and especially the
           deployment of mini- and off-grid solutions major employment drivers for the
           continent. Additionally, the modest manufacturing hub in the continent has
           significant room to grow amid expanding and upgrading power grids.

           The bulk of grid-related jobs in the utilities sector involves operation and
           maintenance activities, including meter reading. The uptick in smart metering and
           broader grid digitalisation reduces the labour intensity of operating and
           maintaining grids while increasing the need for IT skills. Regions with low levels of
           smart grid deployment can have three times higher labour intensity than regions
           with greater deployment levels. As grids become more digitised there will be an
           increasing need for utilities to employ workers highly skilled in IT in the sector. To
           do this, companies need to be aware of compensation packages in other
           industries to make sure that they can offer competitive incentives to attract the
           necessary talent.

           Historically, given the regulated nature of the industry, grid-related employment
           has experienced minimal fluctuations in headcount. Looking ahead, there is a real
           possibility of the sector facing labour shortages as plans announced after the
           Covid-19 pandemic and the Russian invasion of Ukraine drive up new expansion
           projects, especially in China, Europe and the United States.




                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 56
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                          Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




Chapter 2: Regulation and policy

           Power grids are natural monopolies, and as such their development is particularly
           influenced by the regulatory and policy framework under which they operate. While
           the previous chapter presents a global view of current infrastructure and the status
           of the sector, in this chapter we address power grid regulation and policy, with a
           particular focus on selected regions around the world.

           In the first part of this chapter we look at remuneration and investment
           mechanisms for grids. The diversity of ways to manage transmission and
           distribution grids across the world is reflected in a similar variety of ways to finance
           their operation and expansion, depending – above all – on the market structure
           and the existence of any unbundling of the sector. Energy transitions, including
           technological change and growing concerns over climate resilience, are driving
           the evolution on many of these mechanisms.

           The second part of the chapter looks at existing policies for planning the expansion
           of power grids towards 2030. While our focus is on the current status of these
           plans, it is important to highlight they will define most of the sector’s evolution for
           the remainder of the current decade, given its long lead times as presented in the
           previous chapter. Here, lack of data availability and comparability are the
           challenge – there are significant differences in the planning horizons, mechanisms
           and scope of the investment plans of different countries. Nonetheless, the
           gathered data provide an idea of the status of grid expansion plans today, which
           will define the near future and can serve as a basis for the forward-looking analysis
           in Chapter 3: Identifying the gap.


Remuneration and investment mechanisms
for grids
           Across the world, the management of transmission and distribution grids varies
           according to the industry structure in place, which can range all the way from a
           vertically integrated state-owned national utility to a fully restructured industry
           where the transmission and distribution businesses are designated as separate
           activities and open to private participation.

           As the grid is the backbone of the power system, the objective of oversight is to
           ensure service availability, cost efficiency and affordability to end consumers, and
           increasingly a greater availability of services and technological innovation. In
           integrated state-owned utilities, oversight and remuneration are often carried out
           by the respective energy or finance ministries. In countries where an unbundling
                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 57
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




           and/or privatisation process has been undertaken, and transmission and
           distribution have been designated as natural monopolies, it is increasingly the task
           of a national regulatory authority (NRA) to define the mechanisms for
           remunerating grid operators. This body usually works alongside a regulatory
           framework that enables the unbundling of ownership and ensures independence
           of system operation, maintenance and investment from the supply company.

           Historically these models have been determined by wider energy policy goals –
           such as energy access or cross-subsidies between consumer groups. In recent
           years, mechanisms have emerged to encourage a higher level of private
           involvement in the power system. We can find several business structures that
           allow private-public partnerships for grid development, ownership and operation,
           as well as different remuneration systems to encourage private investment.
           Involving private participation in the power system can be done using different
           structures that provide flexibility in risk allocation and competition through
           tendering.

           One way to structure the grid system is through privatisation, in this way extending
           the participation of new stakeholders and stimulating competition in the sector,
           where revenues are regulated to ensure reasonable development and returns.
           This approach has been adopted in transmission and distribution grids in the
           United Kingdom, Australia and some parts of Latin America, among others. In the
           latter, private investment has accounted for more than half of overall expenditure
           in recent years, emerging as a pivotal source of capital. Successful grid
           privatisation may require a minimum market or grid size to ensure effective
           unbundling and privatisation.

           An alternative method involves the awarding of long-term concessions through
           competitive bidding processes, accompanied by regulated remuneration, as often
           adopted in a distribution sector open to privatisation. These agreements capitalise
           on the expertise of the private sector, enhance budget predictability and facilitate
           risk sharing. However, effective regulation and incentives are necessary to ensure
           the alignment of objectives among all involved parties.

           In Brazil, concessions have been a significant mechanism for involving private
           entities in the expansion and operation of the transmission grid since 2004. The
           transmission company Eletrobras, which was initially fully state-owned, has
           gradually seen its importance diminish as the national transmission grid has
           expanded. In 2023 Eletrobras' ownership stake in the transmission grid has fallen
           to around 40% due to the increasing participation of national and international
           investors through competitive bidding. Brazil intends to go from nearly 160 000 km
           of transmission lines to 200 000 km by 2032, with total investment in transmission
           lines projected to reach USD 18 billion.
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 58
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                                  Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




Remuneration structures are evolving to incentivise the
right balance between affordability and quality of service
            Following a decision on the preferred model for private participation – privatisation
            or concession – policy makers can steer the behaviour and management of these
            natural monopolies through the design of remuneration mechanisms. In the early
            years of deregulation, so-called “cost-of-service” remuneration was the most
            predominant option as it ensured full cost recovery for grid operators and provided
            certainty for investors. This, however, created the incentive to overinvest in
            infrastructure and resulted in higher bills for consumers without providing an
            incentive to innovate.


Regulatory framework for distribution and transmission operators

 Regulatory framework                                            Grid operator                                         Customers                    Both
                                 Cost recovery




                                                                                                                 Affordability –
                                                                  for total costs




                                                                                                                                   improvement
                                                                                    Performance
                                                 minimisation




                                                                                                                 minimisation




                                                                                                                                                  Dynamically
                                                                   optimisation




                                                                                                                                                  aligned cost
                                                                                                   deployment
                                                                                     operational


                                                                                                    Innovation




                                                                                                                                     Quality of
                                                                                      efficiency




                                                                                                                                                   and price
                                                                     Planning




                                                                                                     and best
                                                                                                     practice




                                                                                                                                      service
                                                     Cost




                                                                                                                      cost
                                                                                          and




Cost of service/Cost-plus
Rules are set to cover
costs, with allowed
earnings defined a priori       ⚫                  ⚫                  ⚫                 ⚫              ⚫           ⚫                 ⚫               ⚫
(rate of return) starting
from the determination of
total cost of service
Price cap/Revenue cap
Remuneration is based on
a yearly cap that the grid
operator can charge for
each specific service (price    ⚫                  ⚫                  ⚫                 ⚫              ⚫           ⚫                 ⚫               ⚫
cap) or on the amount that
can be earned for each
cluster of service (revenue
cap)
Yardstick competition
The operator’s
performance is compared
with the other operators’       ⚫                  ⚫                  ⚫                 ⚫              ⚫           ⚫                 ⚫               ⚫
performance of the sector,
with penalties/awards
consequently defined
Output/Performance-
based
Remuneration is based on
performance monitoring for      ⚫                  ⚫                  ⚫                 ⚫              ⚫             ⚫               ⚫              ⚫
each service (e.g. quality,
losses) to incentivise
continuous improvement

Impact on indicator                                             ⚫ Poor              ⚫ Moderate           ⚫ Beneficial

Note: “Dynamically aligned cost and price” refers to the frequency of updating the information used to set the operators’
remuneration based on the actual costs they sustain. Very infrequent updates, for example until the end of a five-year
regulatory period, can result in customers paying higher prices or grid companies suffering financial losses for an extended
period until the imbalance is corrected in the next cycle.
                                                                                                                                                                 IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                                        PAGE | 59
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                          Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




           Price or revenue cap mechanisms, which set a maximum price or revenue for
           each recognised item of the company’s expenditure, have followed as a way to
           incentivise operators to lower their costs and increase profits. However, if not
           correctly combined with other mechanisms, such as performance-based
           schemes, price cap mechanisms can fail to give sufficient priority to the investment
           needed to increase the quality of service and innovation levels.

           Yardstick competition incentivises cost reductions by inducing competition
           between grid operators relative to the industry's average cost. Because of the lack
           of monitoring of how these costs are reduced and the high degree of competition
           among operators, it may distort the incentives and lead to excessive cost
           reductions that impact the quality of service. It is commonly combined with price
           cap regulation.

           Finally, output-based regulation includes monitoring of performance and is often
           used to target specific outcomes, for example by defining rewards or penalties
           based on the quality of service. In an increasing number of jurisdictions it has been
           rolled out as part of efforts to remove capital bias and encourage investment in
           improving operations and quality of service, contributing to a more a neutral view
           on CAPEX and OPEX. Cost minimisation is not as incentivised as in the other
           approaches, but quality and innovation are equally favoured and so customers
           can benefit from service improvement.

           Most advanced economies, due to liberalisation of the power sector, have seen
           the progressive evolution of their regulatory context with periodic adjustment
           following consultation among stakeholders. These economies often have a hybrid
           structure, with multiple schemes adopted in combination to better exploit their
           different characteristics (e.g. yardstick to fix a cap and an output/revenue cap to
           design the improvement path) or with different schemes applied to specific items
           (e.g. CAPEX and OPEX remuneration, as well as quality of service and loss
           targets). For example, in Japan a revenue cap mechanism was adopted in April
           2023. While the country faces stagnating demand growth due to population
           decline, the growth of renewables in power supply and the need to increase
           climate resilience require grid investments. This approach was brought in to
           replace rate of return regulation in order to facilitate grid companies investing
           efficiently in grid enhancements and maintaining secure delivery of supply.

           It is worth highlighting that, despite it being possible to have a similar regulatory
           principle for both transmission system operators (TSOs) and distribution system
           operators (DSOs), there are differences due to the contrasting characteristics of
           the grids and their primary scope (TSO: energy security and adequacy of the
           network; DSO: quality and continuity of supply to the final customers).

           Within different regulatory frameworks, the regulators and policy makers have the
           crucial role of establishing a properly designed electricity tariff to prevent financial
                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 60
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                         Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




           pressure on the grid operator and higher costs for more vulnerable customers.
           One key point to be considered is the assumptions that are used to evaluate the
           economic value of the grid assets. One approach for remunerating DSOs that is
           particularly applied in Latin America (Peru, Chile and Argentina) is the so-called
           Empresa Modelo approach, where the costs and revenues of real companies are
           compared with those of a model company: an efficient ideal operator with
           optimised assets and capacity, which is considered the benchmark on which tariffs
           and thus remuneration are established. From the grid operator’s point of view any
           cost savings mean higher profits, as the remuneration is totally independent from
           operators’ decisions. This creates a higher risk of operators favouring investment
           that creates cost reductions rather than operational improvement, penalising
           quality of supply. For example, in Chile a number of studies highlight that the
           country’s current implementation of the Empresa Modelo approach needs
           changes to better incentivise aspects such as innovation, proactive investments
           and improved quality of supply. In the worst cases, despite cost reduction
           measures, remuneration can even be insufficient to cover expenses, putting at risk
           the grid operators’ financial position.

           The contrasting approach considers the actual costs of the network company,
           termed the regulated asset base (RAB), whereby the net value of the company’s
           assets and operating capacity is recognised and valued. This framework ensures
           operators receive a fair and stable remuneration. However, it can pose challenges
           in ensuring that the incentives do not encourage a focus on overstating investment
           for higher returns, rather than a focus on operational efficiency. An increasing
           number of NRAs are integrating this approach with incentives for boosting
           innovative and efficient investment, approving specific investment plans and
           monitoring their performance.


Within an evolving energy context, regulators are
shifting to output-based schemes
           The reason why NRAs in advanced economies are gravitating towards
           performance-based regulation is their aim of fostering innovation and economic
           and operational efficiency, since the traditional approach, mainly the cost-plus
           framework, could favour CAPEX over OPEX even when an OPEX solution is more
           efficient. This shift is mainly driven by the energy transition, which calls for a high
           level of investment especially in innovative and digital assets. This leads to
           regulators needing a scheme that promotes the implementation of new technical
           and market solutions.

           The United Kingdom was the first country to adopt a full TOTEX scheme (TOTal
           EXpenditure, meaning CAPEX + OPEX) for electricity, which has been in place
           for DSOs since 2015. This is the so-called RIIO (Revenue = Investment +
           Innovation + Output incentives), which was recently extended for the five-year
                                                                                                           IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 61
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




           period 2023-2028. In Italy, where CAPEX and OPEX are respectively addressed
           via cost-plus and price cap schemes for both DSOs and TSOs, the NRA
           introduced ad hoc output-based features from 2015. The second-generation smart
           meter rollout was launched following a performance-based approach, with
           penalties/rewards for DSOs according to their adherence to the established rollout
           timeline (a specific percentage rollout to be achieved by the end of each year of
           the plan). In the same direction in 2017, initially for DSOs and later for TSOs, the
           Italian NRA implemented a resilience regulation with a reward scheme based on
           a project timeline. Italy is also evaluating a move towards a complete output-based
           approach in a step-by-step process involving all players. Portugal introduced
           performance-based regulation for low-voltage grids in 2019 and extended this to
           the transmission system in 2022.

           A number of innovative regulatory approaches are available to pursue specific
           policy objectives or test new technologies that are particularly well suited for
           regulators struggling with cost recovery, as is often the case in emerging market
           and developing economies (EMDEs). For example, Colombia introduced the
           concept of the Special Construction Unit within the distribution grid operator
           regulatory framework in order to foster investment in new digital and advanced
           technology. The network operator can, upon NRA approval, obtain ad hoc
           remuneration for a non-standard asset. In India, the Revamped Distribution Sector
           Scheme (RDSS) has been developed to address state-specific needs: reducing
           grid losses, improving the reliability and affordability of power supply to
           consumers, and ensuring a financially sustainable and operationally efficient
           distribution sector. Among other projects, the smart meter rollout, delayed several
           times, is finally going to be launched (250 million units by FY 2025/2026) thanks
           to a proposed mechanism to be implemented through a public-private partnership
           (PPP) using the TOTEX principle.

           Another option to test innovative approaches is the introduction of regulatory
           sandboxes. For example, in Brazil, the NRA may approve special pilot projects
           within an experimental regulatory environment (regulatory sandbox). Positive ex
           post monitoring of their performance could bring full integration into the standard
           remuneration process. One limitation of pilots is the difficulty of transitioning
           innovative approaches into the main business case after successful trial.

           Cross-border transmission developments introduce an additional layer of
           complexity and may require regulatory solutions as well as increased
           co-ordination in operations and planning to align incentives and fairly distribute
           risks between the different stakeholders over time. In the European context, CBCA
           (Cross-Border Cost Allocation) has been introduced as a regulatory tool for key
           cross-border infrastructure projects. CBCA shares investment costs relating to
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 62
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                          Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




            projects of common interest (PCIs) efficiently among the countries involved. The
            role of the NRA is to closely examine project proposals and determine financing
            proportions.

            Despite the different contexts of advanced economies as compared with EMDEs,
            once the remuneration scheme for TSOs and DSOs has been set, the NRAs have
            another crucial responsibility: to determine how to cover these costs by allocation
            within the final customer tariff.


Electricity grid component and total electricity tariffs for households by country, 2021

                Belgium
                                                                                                          T&D
                  Ireland
                                                                                                          component
                     Peru
               Australia
                Sweden                                                                                    Generation,
               Germany                                                                                    taxes and
                    Spain                                                                                 other costs
         New Zealand*                                                                                     Average T&D
            Netherlands                                                                                   component
                   Japan
                 France
              Colombia                                                                                    Average
        United Kingdom                                                                                    generation,
               Denmark                                                                                    taxes and
  Advanced economies                                                                                      other costs
          United States
                    Brazil
                      Italy
            Philippines*
                 Poland
               Canada
               Romania
                Portugal
                   Chile*
                WORLD
                 Nigeria
Bosnia and Herzegovina
                   Serbia
             Singapore*
                   China
                  Liberia
                 EMDEs
                 Greece
                 Türkiye
                 Mexico
              Argentina
                   Korea
                     India
                              0            100               200              300                 400
                                                                        USD (2021) per MWh

                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.
* Data for Singapore, Philippines, Chile and New Zealand are from 2020.
Notes: T&D = transmission and distribution. Data for China are for the smallest commercial cluster (connection < 1kV). The
generation, taxes and other costs also include subsidies, social funds and some specific measures (e.g. Covid support
measures), where foreseen in the regulation.
Sources: IEA analysis based on official data from country and national regulatory authorities.
                                                                                                                             IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                        PAGE | 63
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                        Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




           The electricity grid tariff paid by consumers spans a wide range in countries
           around the world, from as low as USD 12/MWh in Korea up to well over
           USD 100/MWh in several countries in Europe. Of the total residential electricity
           tariff, the portion attributable to electricity grids represents 20-30% in most cases,
           with some exceptions due to the particularities of certain countries. In places, the
           generation mix and/or higher costs of transmission and distribution can bring this
           share near to 50% (e.g. Peru, Australia and the United States). It is worth
           highlighting that in most cases the distribution segment accounts for around two-
           thirds of the T&D share.

           Another relevant aspect to take into account when setting an adequate tariff
           relates to the point in time that investment is recognised, because the NRA can
           set the rules to pay the system operator ex ante (based on planned expenditure,
           as designed by the DSO and TSO and then approved by regulator) rather than ex
           post (based on actual expenses remunerated after investment plan
           implementation). The latter approach could encourage the operator to extend the
           operation of grid assets beyond their useful life, with the risk of postponing new
           investment and worsening grid conditions. The first approach, recognising
           investment in advance instead, allows for a timely and predictable remuneration
           procedure, helping the operator’s financial management and avoiding the deferral
           of investment over time. This approach requires monitoring, audits and controls
           on the part of the regulator, but ensures DSOs receive stable and predictable
           remuneration, while encouraging them to enhance their financing planning. This
           is particularly relevant for countries such as India, Indonesia and Korea where the
           financial health of utilities is a central challenge.


The rapid pace of change in power systems is motivating
the deployment of new models of investment
           The rapid pace of system transformation is driving the need for grid expansion in
           both advanced economies and EMDEs. EMDEs, however, need to invest in grid
           expansion while also strengthening their existing grids. This compounds broader
           financial challenges, such as utilities’ limited resources due to the lack of cost-
           reflective tariffs, and a greater need for equity-based investment by the utilities
           themselves as the cost of capital can be several times higher than in advanced
           economies, with higher capital costs particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa. As such,
           the priority for enhancing grids in EMDEs is to de-risk investment to lower the cost
           of borrowing. In specific cases this can be enabled by allowing for greater
           involvement of private actors, which can develop projects building on their lower
           cost of capital.

           A model that is gaining relevance for private capital involvement, especially in
           EMDEs, is independent power transmission (IPT), which represents a more
           modular approach as it involves tendering for specific sections and thus allows
                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 64
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




           greater flexibility in piloting different models. Revenue is typically determined by
           the winning bid from the offtaker, and incentives are tied to the line's availability
           rather than meeting demand, thus mitigating demand risk. This model has seen
           success in various regions, including Latin America, the United States and India.

           There are alternative approaches to structuring an IPT project, depending on the
           sources of finance, whether the asset is transferred to a state-owned entity once
           commissioned, how the risk of the project is to be allocated, and also the project’s
           viability and the specific industry structure where it is being implemented.
           Approaches include BOOT (build, own, operate and transfer), BOO (build, own
           and operate), BTO (build, transfer and operate), BOT (build, operate and transfer).
           New models are also being developed for offshore transmission, such as the
           OFTO (offshore transmission network owner) regime in the United Kingdom.
           Under this approach, licences are awarded through competitive tenders granting
           the OFTO a regulated return on the building and operating costs.

           Similarly, the private sector can be part of a joint venture in collaboration with a
           state-owned transmission company and be granted specific participation in the
           project. This is more suitable in lower-income countries where there is no prior
           experience of transmission development through the private sector.

           India, for example, has emphasised the development of mechanisms to transition
           from state-owned centralised systems to IPT models. Different regions have
           implemented various administrative bidding procedures and remuneration
           models. Private companies in India have established a range of joint venture
           projects in collaboration with the state-owned Indian Power Grid Corporation
           (POWERGRID). These collaborations have also extended to neighbouring
           countries like Nepal.

           In 2023 Kenya made a significant announcement stating its intention to introduce
           IPT structures to finance and extend its electricity transmission lines for the first
           time, marking a notable departure from its previous reliance solely on a state-
           owned company (KETRACO). Kenya’s first IPT project – a 165 km 400 kV line
           from Lessos to Loosuk and the 72 km 220 kV line from Kisumu to Musaga – is
           with POWERGRID and is due to reach financial close by end of 2023, at a total
           estimated cost of USD 298 million. It is the first time that a transmission line on
           the African continent will be built via a PPP.

           Another aspect under discussion, particularly in Europe, is a shift towards enabling
           anticipatory investments – those that are not immediately needed for current
           projects, but which can address near-future needs. The United Kingdom carried
           out a consultation on the need for and risk allocation of anticipatory investments
           in 2023, focusing on the co-ordination of offshore wind development. The new
           electricity market design proposal of the European Union also considers a revision
           to tariff methodologies to enable anticipatory investments.
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 65
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                         Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




Stocktake of current policies towards 2030
Investment plans are evolving, complemented by greater
co-ordination
           In grid investment planning, a selected entity outlines feasible options to meet the
           future needs of the grid for the provision of electricity, and regulators or ministries
           authorise the plan and cost allocations. The main objectives in the past have been
           to ensure reliable, secure and cost-effective delivery of power, while today climate
           goals play an increasing role.

           Traditionally, power systems were dominated by dispatchable generation sources
           such as fossil fuel, hydro or nuclear plants. Grid expansion was driven by major
           generation projects coming online or increases in peak demand. Clean electricity
           transitions require a shift in grid planning processes for multiple reasons: the
           increase in renewable generation; the increased role of distributed resources; the
           need for digitalisation for better operations and to improve customer activation and
           participation; and the need to bring together targets for multiple sectors that link to
           the power sector, from the electrification of heat and transport to efficiency targets
           across all sectors and overall emissions. In addition, the development of
           renewables far from load centres and demand-side resources can often occur
           faster than the lead times for deploying grid assets, so considering grid planning
           now is critical to delivering electricity security in the future.


Clean transitions are driving new and updated grid
planning studies
           To prepare a grid investment plan, the system planner conducts studies every one
           to five years to forecast demand and identify the type and location of energy
           resources needed to meet system needs typically around ten years into the future.
           These planning cycles face challenges in meeting the needs of clean transitions,
           in part because renewable energy and technology deployment may proceed very
           rapidly, making it difficult for grid development to keep pace, particularly where
           plans are updated infrequently. In addition, as new clean energy targets are
           introduced, there may be a lag before the development plan is aligned with targets.

           In addition, the planning horizon of these studies is typically shorter than the
           timeline of high-level climate targets such as net zero goals. This creates
           challenges in ensuring that grid planning is aligned efficiently with the needs of
           longer-term ambitions. There is also an increased need to co-ordinate planning
           for the power sector and other sectors (including transport, heating, natural gas
           and hydrogen), to align generation and transmission development, and to consider
           different potential development pathways. Clear overall estimates of the
                                                                                                           IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 66
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                           Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




           investment needed in all parts of the grid, which act as an important investment
           signal, may also be lacking. To address these challenges, many countries have
           introduced changes to their planning practices in recent years.


Length of planning horizons and update frequency for grid planning studies

           Germany

               India

              China

        South Africa

              Brazil

              Japan

    European Union

             CAISO

                       0              5               10               15              20               25
                                                                                  Years
                                 Primary horizon      Additional perspective    Frequency

                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: Horizons are based on the main transmission planning study for each region, noting that some have additional
longer-term studies used to inform the main plan.
Sources: The National Transmission Needs Study for the United States; the Ten Year Network Development Plan for the
European Union; the Electricity Supply Plan for Japan; the Plano Decenal de Expansão de Energia for Brazil; the
Transmission Development Plan for South Africa; the Five-Year Plans for China; and the National Electricity Plan Volume II
(Transmission) for India.



           One approach adopted in many power markets is to introduce additional studies
           that provide guidance for transmission and generation development in line with
           climate targets. For example, in Chile the energy ministry introduced a new annual
           long-term energy planning process, first published in 2018 and with a 30-year
           horizon, which is considered in the 20-year national transmission plan. In early
           2020 the Ontario system operator published the Annual Planning Outlook for the
           first time, which provides a 20-year outlook as part of its provincial planning
           processes. The outlook also informed the Pathways to Decarbonisation report,
           which was published in December 2022 with a horizon to 2050.

           In Australia, the annual 20-year National Transmission Network Development
           Plan became a part of the Integrated System Plan (ISP) from 2018. The ISP is
           prepared every two years and provides a whole-of-system plan for the National
           Electricity Market with outlooks to 2050. The United States recently introduced the
           National Transmission Planning Study, with an outlook to 2035. The US triennial
           national state of the grid report, formerly the National Transmission Congestion
           Study, which considered only historical congestion, was also updated from 2023
           to include outlooks to 2030 and 2035 and was renamed the National Transmission
           Needs Study.
                                                                                                                             IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                        PAGE | 67
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




           Japan’s cross-regional co-ordinator, OCCTO, also published a national grid
           master plan for the first time in 2023 with a view to carbon neutrality in 2050, to
           complement the annual ten-year Electricity Supply Plan. In 2021 the system
           operators of Ireland (Eirgrid) and Northern Ireland (SONI) published the Shaping
           Our Electricity Future Roadmap, which provides an outline of key developments
           in grids, engagement and operations and a market perspective to 2030, to support
           a secure long-term net zero transition. This is in addition to the ten-year
           Transmission Development Plans prepared annually by Eirgrid and SONI.

           In India, the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) is responsible for generation and
           transmission planning across the whole country and makes a National Electricity
           Plan every five years, with the first volume dedicated to generation and the second
           to transmission planning. In 2022 the CEA published an additional study to support
           India’s clean transition pathway, Transmission System for Integration of over
           500 GW RE Capacity by 2030.

           In 2020 Brazil prepared an integrated National Energy Plan for the second time,
           with a longer horizon than the first plan prepared in 2007. The plan will now be
           prepared every five years to support Brazil’s regular grid planning exercises, which
           include the Transmission Expansion Programme/Long-Term Expansion Plan
           (PET/PELP), the Medium-Term National Grid Operation Plan (PAR/PEL), the
           Electric Power Transmission Concession Plan (POTEE) and the Ten-Year Energy
           Expansion Plan (PDE).

           China formulates a comprehensive national power plan and national energy plan
           every five years (e.g. 14th Five-Year Plan for Energy for 2021-2025). Power grid
           planning is a submodule of the national power plan, which is formulated by the
           National Energy Administration of China, while the three major grid operators,
           State Grid Corporation of China, China Southern Power Grid Company and Inner
           Mongolia Power Company, independently conduct research and provide relevant
           opinions and suggestions to the grid planning process.

           In regions with vertically integrated utilities, which include parts of Russia, some
           US states, much of Africa, the Middle East and Southeast Asia, as well as some
           South American countries, generation and transmission planning are typically both
           undertaken by the integrated utility. Such regions also require a shift in planning
           practice to reflect government climate targets in system plans. For example
           Indonesia’s RUPTL covers both generation and grid development. The latest plan
           reflected targets to become carbon neutral in 2060, and is currently being updated
           to incorporate Indonesia’s net zero target, announced in 2022. Similarly, the
           Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) reviews the Power
           Development Plan every one to two years to prepare a new or revised edition. The
           last plan, released in 2020 (PDP 2018-2037 Revision 1), incorporated renewable
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 68
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                        Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




           energy targets from Thailand’s Alternative Energy Development Plan and is
           currently being updated to reflect Thailand’s net zero pledge.


Renewables and distributed resources are prompting
new approaches
           Another aspect receiving attention is an increased need for proactive co-ordination
           between generation and grid planning for effective renewables deployment.
           Traditional approaches, where grid expansion would typically only be considered
           following individual generator project proposals, can create barriers to efficient and
           timely grid development – and also limit renewables deployment. To address this,
           regions such as Texas, Australia, South Africa and India have introduced
           renewable energy zones (REZs) and adopted similar approaches to identify
           regions with high renewables potential suitable for developing transmission
           connections. This can both speed up and reduce the cost of renewable energy
           deployment. In Denmark, the energy agency acts as a one-stop shop for operators
           and ensures a smooth licensing procedure, where the interests of other authorities
           including grid planning are co-ordinated internally.

           Some governments have introduced capacity availability requirements into their
           auction schemes or included transmission provision in long-term planning. In the
           Netherlands, in response to high levels of grid congestion, projects applying to the
           SDE++ programme must receive a transmission capacity indication from the local
           grid operator. In Brazil, transmission auctions are used to connect areas with high
           renewable energy generation to areas of high consumption.

           On distribution grids, anticipatory planning for the needs of distributed energy
           resources can help ensure grids are not a barrier to their deployment, as
           demonstrated by Hokkaido electric power network company’s planning for hosting
           grid-connected batteries.

           With regard to integrating distributed energy resources into power systems, one
           of the main obstacles is a lack of sufficient visibility and transparency of behind-
           the-meter resources. The International Smart Grid Action Network is working on
           TSO-DSO co-ordination, and the EU DSO Entity (representing DSOs) and
           European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity (ENTSO-E,
           representing TSOs) signed a memorandum of understanding in 2022 to enhance
           co-operation.

           As the challenges faced in operating the system diversify, new methods such as
           digitalisation and demand-side response need to be taken into account when
           evaluating the development of electricity grids. A number of initiatives exist to
           advance these solutions, such as the European Smart Grids Task Force and the
                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 69
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                          Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




           Digital Demand Driven Networks initiative (3DEN). DSOs need a substantial
           amount of investment to address surging demand on distribution grids.


Co-ordination within and between regions is a growing
opportunity
           The benefits of extending the footprint of connected grids over larger areas are
           well recognised, including reduced costs and increased reliability of power
           delivery, but there are difficulties in co-ordinating different countries. In the context
           of clean transitions, grid connections between regions are also critical to allow the
           sharing of both renewables and flexibility resources and lower the cost of
           transitions. Ideally, grid expansion plans should co-optimise factors such as
           generation connections, system operations, near-term planning, and long-term
           planning for local, regional and interregional projects.

           This need is being recognised through measures to improve national and
           subnational regional co-ordination. In Japan, for example, OCCTO was created in
           2015 to directly co-ordinate national grid development interests from a higher
           viewpoint. Planning studies can also serve to improve regional co-ordination, as
           seen in Germany, the United States and Ontario.

           The geographical scope of grid planning is also being extended as the need to
           co-ordinate cross-border interconnections increases. Co-ordination between
           interconnectors and domestic planning is essential because interconnectors can
           affect domestic grids, particularly with regard to stability and trading behaviours.
           In the United States, the Western Interconnection covers all or part of 14 states,
           2 Canadian provinces (British Columbia and Alberta) and the northern part of Baja
           California in Mexico. The region largely comprises vertically integrated utilities,
           many of them municipal or rural co-operatives, and they are gradually moving
           towards greater co-operation. Many jurisdictions with historically limited
           interconnection, such as EU member states, Southern African countries, Central
           American countries and ASEAN countries, have taken the initiative to co-ordinate
           increased cross-border interconnections to ensure adequacy and facilitate
           electricity exchange with increasing renewable energy resources.

           For example, in Europe ENTSO-E adopts a non-binding Ten-Year Network
           Development Plan (TYNDP) considering all its members, which builds on the
           national investment plans prepared by the TSOs and private developers in each
           country. The main processes of the TYNDP are developing scenarios for the
           future, screening needs for infrastructure expansion and conducting project
           assessments based on cost-benefit analysis. The TYNDP 2022 reviews
           141 transmission and 23 storage projects corresponding to 2030 and 2040
           scenarios. The TYNDP System Needs study identifies the opportunity for 88 GW
           of beneficial capacity increases from 2025 to 2040 across over 65 borders.
                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 70
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                              Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




            ASEAN countries created the ASEAN Power Grid (APG) programme in 1997
            under the ASEAN Plan of Action for Energy Cooperation (APAEC). Under the
            APG, the ASEAN Interconnection Masterplan Study has identified numerous
            benefits to increased interconnection in ASEAN. APAEC 2016-2025 reviews the
            achievements and action plans to enhance grid development in ASEAN countries.

            An increasing number of cross-regional initiatives and institutions are being
            created to improve regional co-ordination and attract investment and political
            support, including new global initiatives such as Global Energy Interconnection,
            Green Grids Initiative and One Sun One World One Grid. Increasing global
            consensus on grid development is highly likely to improve recognition of the
            importance of grids across different countries.


Recent policy commitments seek to boost grid
investment
            In response to the growing recognition that grid development needs to accelerate
            to support energy transitions, policy makers in many regions have introduced
            measures to support their deployment. While investment in grids is growing at a
            stable pace in advanced economies, governments are recognising the need for
            further grid investment to support energy transitions. While most of the funding
            committed to grids is typically associated with regular expansion plans, some
            countries have introduced new policies to further support grid development.


Investment (billion USD) and time horizon for current transmission grid plans in
selected regions

    South Africa          USD 4 billion

       California                  USD 9 billion

        Australia                                              USD 9 billion

            Brazil                USD 32 billion

            India              USD 29 billion

           China        USD 205 billion

                2020            2025            2030            2035            2040           2045            2050
                                                                                       Time horizon

                                                                                                              IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: Selected regions are included with specific cost estimates for the entire transmission grid, excluding distribution.
Sources: IEA analysis based on South Africa, Transmission Development Plan 2023-2032; California, 2022-2023
transmission plan; Australia, 2022 Integrated System Plan; Brazil, Plano Decenal de Expansão de Energia 2032; India,
Transmission System for Integration of over 500 GW RE Capacity by 2030; China, 14th Five-Year Plan.
                                                                                                                                IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                          PAGE | 71
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




           One approach is to explicitly dedicate a grid development budget that can be
           allocated to different projects. The US Congressional Budget Office estimates that
           total support from the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA) and the Infrastructure
           Investment and Jobs Act of 2021 will surpass USD 430 billion from 2022 through
           to 2031, of which the IRA provides USD 760 million in grants to siting authorities
           to facilitate the siting and permitting of transmission projects. The National
           Renewable Energy Laboratory estimates that the US IRA could enable 24 TW-
           miles of transmission capacity by 2030, which is a 16% increase in total installed
           capacity relative to the current level.

           The REPower EU Plan is estimated to provide an additional EUR 29 billion of
           investment for power grids, with plans to accelerate the deployment of projects by
           2030. In Australia, the parliament approved a AUD 20 billion Rewiring the Nation
           plan to finance new transmission projects. As for international projects, a number
           of international transmission lines have been planned under the dedicated
           frameworks of respective regional economic communities and financed by related
           participants and/or international development banks (e.g. Inter-American
           Development Bank, African Development Bank and Asian Development Bank).
           Some funding is also being explicitly allocated to digitalisation, such as India’s
           Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme, which targets more than half of its funding
           to better metering.


Regulatory reform can speed up grid development
           Beyond financial support, some policies also target the removal of administrative
           barriers to new transmission projects by giving key infrastructure priority status
           and simplifying the permit issuance procedures. In the United States, in parallel to
           the IRA grants for siting and permitting transmission projects, in 2022 the
           administration released a permitting action plan aimed at expediting federal
           permitting and environmental assessments for infrastructure projects funded
           under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act. Also in 2022, the Netherlands
           introduced a national action programme, which includes plans to speed grid
           development through better co-ordination.

           Regulatory experimental sandboxes are used as a tool to promote flexibility in
           regulation. In the United Kingdom, Ofgem’s Innovation Link provides innovators
           with support on energy regulation to facilitate the launch of new products, services,
           methodologies and business models. In Italy, the Italian Regulatory Authority for
           Energy, Networks and Environment (ARERA) allows DSOs to be involved in large-
           scale regulatory experiments as a tool for innovation. Sandboxes are also used
           as a small-scale tool for retail suppliers and third parties. A regulatory sandbox
           was also introduced in France where the NRA, CRE, allows exemptions to
           facilitate the innovative technologies that promote energy transitions and smart
           grids and infrastructure. In Australia, the Energy Innovation Toolkit provides an
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 72
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




           innovation enquiry service, trial waiver and trial rule change process to help
           innovators navigate the complex regulatory frameworks.

           The European Union has established the Trans-European Networks for Energy
           (TEN-E) regulation as a new approach to EU-wide infrastructure planning, and
           has announced every two years since 2013 a list of projects of common interest
           (PCIs) to reduce administrative costs and improve regulatory conditions for key
           transmission projects. The revised version of the TEN-E, which entered into force
           in 2022, aims to accelerate the permitting and authorisation procedure of the
           11 priority corridors already identified, including offshore and onshore
           interconnections. In addition, in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, a
           temporary emergency regulation sets maximum timelines for permit-granting
           procedures for renewables, its relevant storage and grid connection.

           In India, the Gatishakti Sanchar Portal was launched in 2021 to centralise and
           accelerate the issuance of right-of-way permits for infrastructure development,
           including transmission lines.

           Targeted reforms are also being used to address the queues of projects awaiting
           grid connection. The system operator of Great Britain is now requiring that
           applicants meet specific milestones to progress in the queue, to avoid speculative
           applications. Conditions that must be met to apply for connection permits can also
           be strengthened to prioritise projects that are the most likely to be built, such as
           requiring developers to have already obtained planning permission before
           applying, which is the case in France and Germany. Parallelising permitting
           procedures for the construction of generating assets and their connection to the
           grid is good practice to streamline the approval of new projects, as applied in
           Austria and the Netherlands. The US Federal Regulatory Energy Commission
           (FERC) has approved a new rule to streamline the interconnection process.

           Speeding up permitting applications also involves having sufficient trained staff
           within permitting agencies and departments. They must also be equipped with
           adequate equipment and software to deal with digital permitting processes, which
           are more efficient than paper-based systems.


Societal support is critical to timely grid deployment
           As social opposition can be a significant source of delays in project deployment,
           efforts need to be made towards early and frequent stakeholder involvement in
           project planning. This starts by establishing effective communication channels to
           ensure stakeholders are heard, making sure to engage the local population and
           authorities though public consultation and information meetings, where the
           benefits brought by the project can be made clear. In Australia, for instance, the
           Energy Grid Alliance was established to improve community engagement and
           advocate best planning processes in new transmission projects. The World
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 73
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 2: Regulation and policy




           Economic Forum’s Clean Power and Electrification programme is collating models
           to accelerate and scale clean power infrastructure deployment while
           simultaneously creating shared value for people and communities, and protecting
           biodiversity.

           On the technical side, best practices can be adopted to limit the impact of new
           lines and related equipment on their environment. For instance, the utilisation of
           underground cables instead of overhead lines where possible can effectively
           mitigate concerns related to visual and environmental impact, albeit at a
           significantly higher cost (underground cables are generally at least five times more
           expensive than overhead lines). In that case, the price difference is likely to be
           borne by citizens through higher tariffs.

           Solutions to make better use of existing right-of-way corridors to site new
           transmission projects can be further explored, like the NextGen Highways initiative
           in the United States, which aims at collocating electric and communication
           infrastructure along highways and railways. Another option to increase community
           acceptance is to create combined projects that both add new underground
           infrastructure and reroute existing above-ground lines in the same location so that
           the overall impact is to reduce visible electricity infrastructure. Moreover, so that
           new projects can have a net positive impact on the environment, green corridors
           to protect biodiversity can be created under overhead lines, as with the Life Elia-
           RTE project.

           In urban areas, local acceptance of substations can be increased by concealing
           them behind aesthetically pleasing facades, placing them inside attractive
           buildings or moving them underground. Noise protection walls reduce disturbance
           for local residents and gas-insulated switchgear helps to reduce space
           requirements.

           Transparent and fair compensation for landowners and local communities also
           contributes to the acceptance of grid projects. In Australia, compensation
           payments set by kilometre of line (AUD 200 000/km [around USD 140 000/km] in
           New South Wales and Victoria, and an estimated AUD 300 000/km [around
           USD 210 000/km] in Queensland) and paid out in annual instalments were
           recently introduced for landowners hosting new transmission infrastructure. In
           Ireland, the grid operator determines a community fund for each transmission line
           and substation project, the amount of which is based on the voltage and length of
           the line. In India, in 2015 the Ministry of Power released detailed guidelines on
           compensation payments for acquiring rights of way, supplemented in 2020 by
           guidelines specific to urban areas, although they have yet to be implemented in
           the majority of states.
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 74
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the
pathway to future grids

           For grids to be an enabler of a secure energy transition, they need to be
           maintained, updated and adapted to the needs of the future energy system. In this
           chapter we quantify the need for grid development under the Announced Pledges
           Scenario (APS), in which countries fully implement their national targets to 2030
           and 2050, including ambitions to reach net zero emissions. We assess whether
           current grid investment commitments are on track to deliver this scenario and
           explore the consequences if grid development falls short. Where appropriate, we
           also include comparisons with the Net Zero Emissions by 2050 (NZE) Scenario,
           which provides a comprehensive global roadmap to achieve net zero emissions
           within the energy sector by 2050, with an emissions trajectory that is consistent
           with the Paris Agreement and limiting the long-term global average temperature
           increase to 1.5°C.

           In the APS, the electricity sector is a driving force of clean energy transitions and
           undergoes deep transformations. Electricity is the fastest growing form of final
           energy over the next 10 years, growing by 20% more per year than it did over the
           past decade, but is doing so in a different manner. The deployment of electric
           vehicles, greater use of electric heating and cooling, and developing of hydrogen
           production via electrolysis are new drivers of demand growth, adding to the
           conventional growth in emerging market and developing economies. Wind and
           solar PV account for over 80% of the total increase in global power capacity over
           the next two decades in the APS, compared with less than 40% over the past two
           decades. Effectively integrating renewables demands that the structure and
           operations of power systems evolve with equal pace. To meet growing power
           system flexibility needs, which double by 2030 in the APS, calls on unlocking the
           potential of demand response and energy storage. Modernising and digitalising
           grid infrastructure, particularly distribution grids, paired with updated grid
           management and operations critically underpin the dynamic power systems in the
           APS.
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 75
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




Drivers of grid development
Economic growth and electrification drive significant
increases in demand
           Increasing electricity demand is one of three key drivers of grid expansion across
           all regions and scenarios, as represented in the Global Energy and Climate Model,
           alongside the growth of renewables and replacement of ageing grid components.
           Electricity demand growth is itself driven by a number of factors, including
           population, economic and income growth. They lead to greater use of electricity in
           traditional applications such as cooling and appliances in buildings, the internet
           and entertainment, and industrial motors. In addition, new applications for
           electricity are set to drive future growth, including the electrification of transport
           through EVs, heat through heat pumps and electric water heating, and hydrogen
           production via electrolysis.

           Electricity demand growth has historically been accompanied by grid expansion
           and reinforcement, and while distributed options are becoming more prevalent,
           development and investment plans around the world indicate that centralised grids
           will remain of primary importance to support growing needs. Grid expansion
           includes not only line and cable extensions, but also non-line components such
           as substations, stability and load flow control devices (e.g. synchronous
           condensers and static synchronous compensators), energy storage and
           digitalisation technologies for better utilisation of grid assets. Understanding how
           demand increases across scenarios allows insight into grid expansion needs.

           Global electricity demand is projected to increase at a rate of 2.7% per year in the
           APS, more than doubling from just under 25 000 TWh in 2021 to nearly
           54 000 TWh in 2050. The buildings sector continues to consume the most
           electricity, followed closely by industry, each accounting for more than one-third
           of total demand throughout the period. Transport makes up just 2% of global
           electricity demand currently, but this rises to 15% in 2050. Hydrogen production
           via electrolysis adds significantly to electricity demand growth, from less than
           2 TWh in 2021 to over 5 700 TWh in 2050 in the APS. More rapid electrification of
           end uses in the NZE Scenario further accelerates electricity demand growth to
           3.2% per year to 2050, reaching over 62 000 TWh in 2050. Demand growth is
           expected to be accompanied by improvements in efficiency.

           In advanced economies, electricity demand grows at 2.1% per year in the APS,
           increasing by over 80% from 2021 to 2050. This is below the world average, as
           traditional uses of electricity in industry and buildings in advanced economies are
           already well developed. Hydrogen production and EVs account for more than half
           the growth in electricity demand to 2050.
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 76
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                 Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




Electricity demand in advanced economies and EMDEs in the Announced Pledges
Scenario, 2021-2050
                            Advanced economies                       Emerging market and developing economies
      40 000
TWh




      35 000
      30 000
      25 000
      20 000
      15 000
      10 000
       5 000
          0
           2021              2030         2040           2050      2021            2030            2040              2050


                 Industry     Hydrogen   LDVs     Cooling and heating     Appliances      Energy Access      Other


                                                                                                           IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: LDVs = light-duty vehicles.
Source: IEA (2022), World Energy Outlook 2022.



               In emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs), electricity demand
               grows by 3.1% per year, faster than the global average, from 15 000 TWh in 2022
               to over 35 000 TWh in 2050. As a result, EMDEs account for two-thirds of global
               electricity demand by 2050, following population growth of 1.7 billion over the
               period and 170% economic growth. Buildings account for one-third of electricity
               demand growth to 2050 in EMDEs in the APS, followed by industry at about 30%,
               transport at 20% and hydrogen production at about 15%.

               In order to model the dynamic relationship between electricity demand growth and
               grid expansion, detailed analysis was carried out to consider the historical data for
               both elements in regions around the world, plus other related factors including
               population and GDP. As a result, robust equations were established to represent
               the relationship between grid line length per TWh of electricity demand and GDP
               per capita. Transmission and distribution were treated separately, with
               relationships established for each, as they capture different factors including
               geography and economic structure. The integration of GDP per capita into the
               equation is of paramount importance, as it serves as a valuable proxy for
               economic development and prosperity. In lower-income economies, electricity
               demand growth is likely to be the result of connecting many new households and
               businesses, calling for significant grid expansion. Meanwhile, in high-income
               economies the data indicate that a unit of electricity demand growth requires less
               grid expansion. This can be explained by existing consumers raising their level of
               consumption, for example through increased electrification of transport or heat, a
               growing trend in many advanced economies.
                                                                                                                               IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                       PAGE | 77
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                      Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




Relationship between grid length per unit of electricity demand and GDP per capita

                                    Distribution                                               Transmission
             12 000                                                       700
km per TWh




                                                                          600
             10 000
                                                                          500
              8 000
                                                                          400
              6 000
                                                                          300
              4 000
                                                                          200
              2 000                                                       100


                      0   10   20   30   40    50   60   70    80               0   10    20     30    40     50     60   70   80
                                                                                                              GDP per capita


                          Other     United States    European Union         Japan        China        India        Indonesia

                                                                                                                      IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Sources: IEA analysis based on Global Transmission.



                 The fundamental driver of economic development is then represented in the long-
                 term energy outlook for each region by employing the derived dynamic relationship
                 in the Global Energy and Climate Model. Within this framework, GDP is projected
                 through to 2050 for each region. GDP projections are regularly updated, informed
                 by the latest developments and expectations for economic development around
                 the world. Projections for population are also updated regularly and electricity
                 demand by region is projected in detail for each scenario, culminating from in-
                 depth analysis for end uses within each sector. The combination of all these
                 elements then enables electricity grid expansion to be derived from electricity
                 demand growth projections in the World Energy Outlook. While the stylised
                 representation of electricity grid expansion employed in the modelling is not
                 comparable to the kind of detailed grid expansion planning carried out over years
                 by system operators and planners, it can provide insights for policy makers into
                 the broad developments needed for electricity grids to help fulfil policy ambitions
                 and enable clean energy transitions.


Distributed energy resources need to be integrated in a
smart way
                 The deployment of distributed energy resources can create challenges for system
                 operators, particularly considering that higher levels of electrification result in
                 higher peak loads and potential congestion on distribution grids. Distributed
                 energy resources add to system complexity, and, without active monitoring,
                 increase the difficulty of anticipating and managing flows on the distribution grid.
                                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                              PAGE | 78
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           Nonetheless, they can also actively support grid management through increased
           visibility and controllability, allowing them to provide flexibility services that support
           efficient grid management.


           Heat pumps and distributed generation
           The electrification trend in the buildings sector is driven by heat pump installations,
           the number of which is increasing each year (annual sales up by 11% in 2022
           alone); heat pumps will have to meet nearly 20% of global heating needs in
           buildings by 2030 to align with current climate pledges, up from 10% in 2022.
           Beyond this, the decarbonisation process boosted by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine
           is driving many European countries to further incentivise distributed solar PV
           deployment.

           A detailed analysis carried out by Eurelectric for the European Union and
           United Kingdom showed that DSOs need to allocate at least EUR 85-95 billion in
           the period 2020 to 2030 to integrate renewables, about a quarter of the total
           investment in distribution. The study identified the need for significant
           development of distribution grids, including the deployment of digitalisation, to
           manage the increasing complexity of systems due to distributed resources. This
           includes investment in smart meters, remote control, and communication and
           automation across the low- and medium-voltage grids.


           Impacts of electric vehicles on grid infrastructure
           Electrification of the transport sector is expected to make a significant contribution
           to electricity demand growth, particularly in advanced economies, as governments
           incentivise the switch to electric transport as part of their decarbonisation
           strategies. Sales of electric cars have been breaking new records every year, and
           exceeded 10 million in 2022, or 14% of new cars sold.

           In most of the more developed EV markets today, the vehicles are mainly charged
           in residential areas in the evening or overnight. When left unmanaged, EV
           charging can result in higher peak demand. Therefore, adequately sized and
           equipped transmission and distribution grids, combined with managed charging
           measures such as time-of-use tariffs and V1G (smart charging), will be
           increasingly crucial as EV penetration increases. Furthermore, it will be key to take
           into account the different charging profiles that could be associated with varying
           types of charging infrastructure, such as slower home charging or fast charging
           along highways.

           When EV ownership exceeds 20%, the adaptation needs of grids, especially at
           the distribution level, can become significant, as illustrated by analysis on
           Germany undertaken by the IEA and RWTH Aachen University. The ease of
           integrating EVs into the grid will depend on its ability to be balanced with other
           distributed energy resources, such as heat pumps, air conditioning and rooftop
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 79
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                  Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




            solar. As such, grid upgrades will be particularly important at the local level and in
            urban environments where grid congestion due to clustered residential charging
            can be exacerbated by the combination of space heating/cooling and distributed
            solar.

            Lastly, ensuring a just deployment of charging infrastructure will require
            development in rural environments, further away from existing grids, and hence
            with higher investment costs. In Australia, up to 80% EV uptake is possible without
            grid upgrades in urban areas, but in certain rural grids, in which transformers are
            already overloaded, this can drop to 0%.

            In EMDEs particularly, growing electricity demand for appliances and transport
            electrification, sometimes combined with poor infrastructure quality, will strain
            distribution systems and require both upgrades and expansion. Grids in these
            countries are already facing challenges such as transformer failure and high
            losses. This is especially true in rural areas where loads are served over long
            distances, and where the additional EV load may hence increase the risk of
            overloading and voltage deviation issues. Minimising the impact of EV charging in
            developing urban environments will also be crucial to avoid local congestion
            issues, as shown by a simulation of a distribution system in Brazil.


Framework for grid integration of EVs




                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: This figure represents a summarised version of the framework for EV grid integration developed by the IEA. EVSE =
electric vehicle supply equipment; V1G = active control with unidirectional charging; V2G = active control with bidirectional
charging.
Source: IEA (2022), Grid integration of electric vehicles – a policy manual.
                                                                                                                                IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                         PAGE | 80
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           To avoid delays in the deployment of EVs, grid deployment should be planned
           proactively and in an integrated manner across sectors. Another important lever
           to consider is the use of managed charging techniques, which, thanks to digital
           technologies, can turn EV charging into an opportunity for power system flexibility,
           hence reducing their impact on the grid. Implementing these measures will require
           policy makers to address technical barriers together with market design choices.

           To minimise the impacts of EV charging on grids, it is hence crucial for policy
           makers to take them into account in planning and promote the use of managed
           charging techniques. The IEA has developed a policy manual and an EV charging
           and integration tool to assist policy makers in their planning.


           DERs as a source of flexibility
           As they are mainly connected to distribution grids, the increasing volume of
           distributed energy resources is pushing DSOs to explore the flexibility services
           these resources can provide rather than only seeing them as additional complexity
           to manage. Rather than exacerbating problems such as grid congestion, outages
           and voltage violation, they can be adopted as solutions to provide crucial support
           to address these network issues. To tap into the value of distributed energy
           resources, incentives for their uptake must be considered in the context of broader
           system objectives to ensure they respond to actual system needs and do not
           internalise the benefits solely to the end user.

           Distributed energy resources can provide services to the system by voluntarily
           adjusting generation and/or consumption in response to an external signal, which
           can be a price signal or direct activation, e.g. by an aggregator. They can be
           targeted at a defined time and duration at a specific location within the specific
           portion of grid to enhance security of supply and service quality in the most
           efficient way, and thereby reduce costs for consumers. Regions are testing ways
           to obtain these services through different approaches (see box).

           Beyond helping grid operators with short-term grid issues, flexibility services
           provided by distributed energy resources can be integrated into the grid planning
           phase to help to meet long-term needs more cost-effectively by avoiding or
           delaying new grid reinforcements. For example, non-wire alternatives such as
           developing solar PV in an area of high demand can reduce daily peak demand
           and limit the need to reinforce the transmission grid, thus reducing overall system
           costs, whether the distributed energy resources are utility or third-party owned.
           This could be cost-effective even if the available solar resource is lower than in
           other areas.

           Flexibility services can be enhanced by grid digitalisation: one example is the
           distributed energy resources management system (DERMS). This is a software
           tool that enables DSOs to proactively and efficiently optimise the grid and
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 81
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           distributed energy resources, even in real time, to prevent or manage congestion
           and voltage violations, and also to support post-fault recovery actions. DERMS
           addresses network issues by identifying which distributed energy resources,
           based on their characteristics, can offer flexibility services within a critical portion
           of the network, by modulating their consumption or production at the request of
           the DSO.

           The APS indicates that by 2050 nearly half of the world’s grid flexibility needs
           would be met by demand response and battery storage. With the growing use of
           electricity for air conditioners, heat pumps, EVs, electrolysers and other potentially
           flexible sources of demand, there is potential for significant load shifting. Demand-
           side flexibility is equally important in advanced economies as well as in EMDEs.

           EMDEs will need to integrate growing renewable generation and other distributed
           energy resources using flexibility services in parallel with further deployment of
           enabling technologies to fully exploit their potential. One concrete example is the
           EnelFlex project in Colombia, launched within the 3DEN: Digital Demand-Driven
           Electricity Networks Initiative. The project aims to implement a voluntary demand
           disconnection mechanism to manage congestion and supply interruptions, and by
           developing grid digitalisation features such as DERMS.




      Regional approaches to procure flexibility resources from distributed
      energy resources
      Regulators around the world are testing different approaches to allow grid
      operators to procure flexibility resources in specific areas, beyond the resources
      that develop from pure wholesale market price signals. The most developed
      markets for flexibility today are in the United Kingdom and the United States, but
      other examples are currently in the early or advanced phases of deployment, often
      thanks to pilot projects and regulatory sandboxes.
      Since late 2017 the United Kingdom has developed a well-structured local
      flexibility market, with all the DSOs participating. The market uses open public
      tenders, has standardised flexibility services and compares the costs and benefits
      of flexibility solutions and grid reinforcement in a shared tool. Since the first
      tenders, the awarded volumes have increased every year, with 116 MW in 2018
      increasing to 2.4 GW contracted so far for 2023-2024.
      In the United States, grid utilities are able to directly procure, access and control
      distributed energy resources, including storage, to defer or avoid grid investment,
      referred to as non-wire alternatives. The DSOs can launch tenders asking third
      parties to build new distributed energy resources, often battery energy storage
      systems, to solve grid constraints. Remuneration is mainly based on mid- to long-
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 82
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




      term bilateral power purchase agreements (generally for seven to ten years) based
      on monthly predetermined performance in specific time slots. In some states
      (e.g. New York) the distributed energy resources can join other markets outside
      the agreed timeslots, with profits shared between DSOs and distributed energy
      resources. In 2020 FERC ordered the Independent System Operators (ISOs) to
      open all their wholesale markets to enable distributed energy resource aggregators
      to participate.
      In the European Union, pilot projects have been introduced to test co-ordination
      schemes between transmission system operators (TSOs) and DSOs, and
      innovative approaches to exploiting flexibility markets (Coordinet, Eu-Sysflex),
      including all stakeholders (R&D, suppliers, DSOs, TSOs and regulators). Directive
      2019/944 puts significant limitations on DSO ownership of storage facilities, limiting
      the ability to directly procure storage as in the United States. The potential of
      distributed energy resources has been exploited by TSOs through ancillary
      services for frequency regulation, voltage control and congestion management.
      One of the largest projects was launched in 2017 by the Italian regulator, with
      Resolution 300/2017, where aggregators – which include distributed generation
      plants, loads and storage larger than 1 MW – are awarded contracts in tenders
      based on fees covering availability and utilisation.
      Initial discussions are occurring in EMDEs: in Brazil the NRA launched a public
      consultation in June 2021 to develop regulatory models for the integration of
      distributed energy resources. Similarly, in Colombia since 2021 the Energy
      Transition Roadmap has included the need to develop a flexibility market to
      support distributed energy resource integration.
      The design of an efficient flexibility market has to take into account criteria for
      distributed energy resource eligibility and may need to include ad hoc conditions
      to avoid distortions, such as increase-decrease strategic bidding (gaming the
      market). This example mainly relates to resources that, by joining both spot and
      flexibility markets, can overbid in the spot market to earn a higher price on the local
      flexibility market.




Increased climate risks require grid resilience
           The impact of climate change is evident through rising global temperatures,
           irregular precipitation patterns, sea level rise, and the increasing frequency and
           intensity of extreme weather events. These changes have significant implications
           for the security of electricity systems worldwide. The anomalous climate patterns
           pose a considerable challenge to electricity systems and amplify the risk of
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 83
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           climate-driven disruption. Among the extreme weather events, heatwaves,
           wildfires, cyclones, heavy precipitation and floods are the primary culprits behind
           large-scale power outages in many countries.

           Future extension of transmission and distribution grids could increase exposure to
           climate change impacts, thereby increasing the possibility of climate-driven
           disruption, and require greater investment in maintenance, upgrades and
           switching to more resilient options. Several strategies and technologies can be
           employed to increase resilience and ensure a reliable power supply, even in the
           face of climate-driven disruption.

           One aspect to consider is the vulnerability of overhead transmission and
           distribution lines. These lines are more susceptible to climate hazards such as
           wildfires, floods and cyclones. To address this, underground transmission and
           distribution cables can be installed, despite much higher upfront cost. However,
           underground networks are also affected by heatwaves, which can increase the
           risk of faults, in particular in urban areas. Another approach involves implementing
           higher design standards for distribution poles and towers. Distribution poles,
           typically made of wood, can be strengthened with guy wires in areas where
           stronger winds are expected. Changing the route of overhead lines away from
           trees and rigorous tree pruning can prevent potential damage from wildfires and
           high winds. Using covered or insulated conductors and enhanced cooling
           mechanisms for transformers would enhance resilience against heatwaves.

           Improving the resilience of substations involves factors such as installing
           equipment with higher specifications, enhanced cooling mechanisms for
           transformers and improved flood protection measures for ground-mounted
           equipment, as well as flood risk assessments and favouring less exposed areas
           in the design phase.

           To enhance overall resilience, it is important to design flexibility into transmission
           and distribution grids. Implementing meshed distribution grids, which offer multiple
           paths for power flow, enhances redundancy and reduces the impact of localised
           outages. Increasing interconnections between different parts of the grid through a
           meshed topology enables efficient power rerouting during emergencies, thereby
           reducing the number of affected customers. Some distributed energy resources,
           such as embedded generation, microgrids and mobile generating units, provide
           localised power sources that can support critical loads during outages and reduce
           dependence on centralised generation. They also enable islanding mechanisms
           by locating generation closer to the load, bypassing the transmission grid. Battery
           storage is increasingly being adopted for frequency regulation purposes, replacing
           traditional methods, whereas pumped-storage power plants offer large-scale
           energy storage capabilities and can compensate for temporary loss of generation
           facilities.
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 84
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           Remote sensing technologies, including drones, light detection and ranging
           (LiDAR), aerial imagery and geographic information systems (GIS), offer valuable
           capabilities for vegetation management, infrastructure inspection, risk assessment
           and real-time damage tracking. These technologies improve maintenance
           prioritisation, enhance vegetation clearance near power lines, and provide critical
           insights for optimised decision-making.

           Demand response programmes and robust communication infrastructure are
           essential elements for resilience. They allow grid stress to be reduced during
           unplanned events by enabling end-use customers to change their consumption
           patterns in response to price changes or incentives. Grid digitalisation can further
           help in preventing outages by adopting remote control at distribution substations
           via automated grid components (e.g. switches, sensors) able to automatically
           configure supply restoration within a few minutes, so promptly isolating the fault.
           This reduces the number of customers affected, as well as the number of field
           operations in extreme conditions, improving the safety conditions of the workers.

           Technology suppliers are continuously seeking innovative solutions to address
           specific challenges. For example, the spark prevention unit (SPU) surge arrester
           monitors overloads and disconnects a power line from the grid to prevent sparks
           that can cause bushfires. Deploying such technologies in wildfire-prone areas can
           significantly reduce the risk of bushfires and improve system reliability.


Grid development is needed to improve electricity
access
           While access to electricity is part of Sustainable Development Goal 7: Ensure
           access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, for the first
           time in decades in 2022 the number of people around the world without access to
           electricity increased, reaching about 774 million, 20 million more people than in
           2021. There are two main reasons for this: on one side consumers are facing rising
           inflation levels, while on the other investment in the expansion of grids and new
           connections is slowing, mainly due to the growing debt levels that most utilities are
           facing as a result of recent disruptions (e.g. the Covid-19 pandemic, Russia’s
           invasion of Ukraine).

           The rise in the number of those without access occurred largely in sub‐Saharan
           Africa, where the number exceeded 600 million for the first time since 2014. This
           worrying trend – mainly concentrated in EMDEs – must be reversed, starting with
           grid expansion, to achieve 100% electricity access. Expanding the grid to increase
           electricity access also implies new household grid connections. In the APS, 67%
           of households in Africa that currently do not have access to electricity are
           connected by 2030, with around 45 million households connected to the main grid,
           32 million to mini-grids and 26 million households supplied by means of stand-
           alone solutions.
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 85
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions            Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




                Achieving universal access to electricity in Africa by 2030 requires a tripling of the
                current rate of progress, and strongly relies on stand‐alone and mini‐grid systems.
                Under the NZE Scenario this means reaching about 65 million cumulative
                household connections to the main grid, with a further 48 million households
                connected to mini-grid solutions and about 42 million to stand-alone grids. Rapid
                progress is not guaranteed; for comparison, in a scenario taking account of
                existing policies and measures and those under development (the Stated Policies
                Scenario) the total only reaches about 32 million households by 2030.


Cumulative new household grid connections in Africa, 2022-2030

          200
Million




                                                                                                        Stand-alone


          150                                                                                           Mini-grids


                                                                                                        Main grid
          100




          50




            0
                        STEPS                     APS                        NZE

                                                                                                      IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: STEPS = Stated Policies Scenario, APS = Announced Pledges Scenario, NZE = Net Zero Emissions by 2050
Scenario. Stand-alone grids are home energy systems.
Source: IEA (2022), World Energy Outlook 2022.



                Initiatives to drive up electricity access are going ahead in EMDEs, with
                programmes in Côte d’Ivoire and Ethiopia targeting 100% electrification by 2025,
                and Kenya and Nigeria targeting total electrification by 2030.


Grid expansion
Grid investment needs to accelerate and match
investment in supply
                The past seven years has seen average annual investment in electricity grids of
                nearly USD 320 billion, reflecting increased demand, uptake of renewables and
                replacement of existing infrastructure. This was an increase of only around 10%
                on the average for the decade 2006-2015 and is far short of the average annual
                funding required through to 2030. In the APS, widespread electrification of end-
                                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                    PAGE | 86
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                           Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




                             use sectors, increased demand and rapid deployment of renewables all contribute
                             to significantly higher average grid investment to 2030, with an average value in
                             the period 2023-2030 of around USD 500 billion per year, exceeding
                             USD 600 billion by 2030, almost double the level in recent years. If grid investment
                             to 2030 stays at the current level, it will fall short of this decade's required average
                             by around 35% for the APS and by 42% for the NZE Scenario.

                             Beyond 2030, grid investment needs to ramp up even faster, reaching
                             USD 775 billion/year under the APS in the decade 2031-2040 and
                             USD 870 billion/year for 2041-2050. Grid investment under the NZE Scenario
                             climbs even higher, surpassing the USD 1 trillion per year mark around 2035
                             onwards.


Average annual transmission and distribution investment in EMDEs and advanced
economies in the Announced Pledges Scenario and Net Zero Scenario, 2016-2050
                     1 200
Billion USD (2022)




                                                                                                              Advanced economies
                     1 000                                                                                          Transmission

                                                                                                                    Distribution
                      800

                      600                                                                                     EMDEs

                      400                                                                                           Transmission

                                                                                                                    Distribution
                      200

                        0
                                2016-    2023-    2031-    2041-       2023-      2031-       2041-
                                2022     2030     2040     2050        2030       2040        2050
                                                  APS                              NZE


                                                                                                                     IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Note: EMDEs = emerging market and developing economies.
Source: IEA (2022), World Energy Outlook 2022.



                             Through to 2050 in these scenarios, distribution grid investment maintains its
                             majority share of total grid investment in both advanced economies and EMDEs.
                             In fact, in 2041-2050 in the APS annual distribution system investment alone
                             reaches around USD 330 billion in both advanced economies and EMDEs,
                             comparable to current total global grid investment. As a whole, EMDE investment
                             represents a majority of total grid investment in every decade under both
                             scenarios. In particular, EMDEs see a much higher share of transmission grid
                             investment than advanced economies – a result of higher-voltage lines being built
                             out for the first time in many cases and ultra-high-voltage corridors, as seen in
                             China. In advanced economies, distribution system investment in the APS is
                             driven by swift electrification of end-use sectors, distributed renewables and
                                                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                                   PAGE | 87
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                 Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           replacement of the vast existing grid, whereas the need for long-distance
           interconnections further drives transmission-level investment.

           In the years leading up to 2030, a significant gap remains between recent levels
           of growth and the 2030 NZE Scenario milestone investment level. Given the
           current compound annual growth rate (CAGR), expected investment levels would
           reach around USD 400 billion in 2030, just over half of the USD 750 billion
           required for 2030 in the NZE Scenario. In meeting this 2030 NZE Scenario level,
           USD 400 billion would need to be met six years earlier, in 2024.


The global length of grids more than doubles to 2050,
and more than half of existing grids need to be replaced
           The total length of grids worldwide more than doubles from 2021 to 2050 in the
           APS, reaching 166 million km. Distribution continues to represent over 90% of the
           total line length, connecting billions of consumers to meet daily needs.
           Transmission grids total 12.7 million km by 2050, up from 5.3 million km in 2021.
           Each region has its own grid development path, distinguished by underlying
           changes in the economy and electrification. In advanced economies, total grid
           length increases by 50% from 2021 to 2050, while EMDEs see over 150% growth.
           EMDE lines reach nearly 120 million km by 2050, which is more than 50% greater
           than the total installed line length globally in 2021.


Installed line length, transmission and distribution, by region in the Announced
Pledges Scenario (million km)

                              Transmission                        Distribution                         Total

                          2021       2030         2050     2021       2030        2050      2021       2030        2050
 United States              0.5        0.6         1.0      11.1       11.5        15.2       11.6       12.1       16.1
 European Union             0.5        0.6         0.9      10.3       11.0        14.0       10.8       11.7       14.9
 Japan                    0.04        0.04        0.05        1.3        1.3        1.7        1.4        1.4        1.8
 Other advanced
                            0.5        0.6         1.0        6.9        8.0       13.7        7.4        8.5       14.7
 economies
 Southeast Asia             0.2        0.3         0.8        4.7        6.3       11.9        4.9        6.6       12.7
 India                      0.5        0.7         1.7      11.3       14.0        25.6       11.8       14.7       27.2
 Africa                     0.3        0.4         1.1        3.9        5.0       14.0        4.2        5.3       15.0
 China                      1.6        2.4         3.7        7.8      12.3        27.6        9.4       14.8       31.4
 Other EMDEs                1.2        1.5         2.5      14.4       16.8        30.0       15.6       18.3       32.5
 World                      5.3        7.2        12.7      71.7       86.1       153.7       77.1       93.4     166.4
                                                                                                           IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Sources: IEA analysis and Global Transmission.



           In addition to expansion, two-thirds of grid length worldwide in 2021 is replaced in
           the APS by 2050, in accordance with component lifetimes. Depending on the pace
                                                                                                                               IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                         PAGE | 88
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                    Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




                   of grid expansion in recent decades, the significance of grid replacement varies
                   by region and scenario, although it remains one of three primary drivers of grid
                   investment in all regions across scenarios. As grid components have an average
                   lifetime of around 40 years, the amount of grid replacement in projection years is
                   a function of grid development over the past several decades. In advanced
                   economies, over 70% of transmission and distribution grids are replaced between
                   2021 and 2050 in the APS, a direct result of older grid infrastructure built to meet
                   robust electricity demand growth in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. In EMDEs, about
                   60% of grid lengths in place in 2021 are replaced by 2050.

                   Over the next two decades, over 80 million km of transmission and distribution
                   length is either replaced or added worldwide. This is more than the total length of
                   all grids worldwide in 2021. It also means that, of the global total line length in
                   2040 in the APS, two-thirds are yet to be built.


Grid length development in the Announced Pledges Scenario by regional grouping,
2021-2050
                               Advanced economies                                           EMDEs

             120                                                   120
Million km




             100                                                   100

             80                                                     80

             60                                                     60

             40                                                     40

             20                                                     20

               0                                                        0
                2021          2030          2040          2050           2021        2030             2040             2050

                       Existing Dx   Existing Tx   Replaced Tx   Replaced Dx      Additional Tx     Additional Dx


                                                                                                              IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: Dx = distribution; Tx = transmission.
Source: IEA (2022), World Energy Outlook 2022.



                   Besides overhead lines and cables, the associated substations with their
                   switchgear, transformers and control and protection equipment need to expand
                   accordingly. Annual additions and replacements of power transformer capacity, a
                   major component of substations, are projected to experience steady growth in the
                   APS. Over the ten years to 2021 the rate of additions and replacements
                   was 2.4 TW per year. Between 2022 and 2030 it increases to 3.5 TW per
                   year, requiring a significant uplift in activity. Subsequently, from 2031 to 2040,
                   annual additions rise further to 4.5 TW per year where they stabilise till 2050,
                   reflecting a consistent level of growth in the power transformer industry. In all
                   years, emerging market and developing economies account for the majority of
                   new transformers.
                                                                                                                                  IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                            PAGE | 89
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions              Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




Average annual transformer capacity additions and replacements by scenario, 2012-50

                                          APS                                 NZE
     5
                                                                                                      EMDEs
TW




                                                                                                        Transmission
     4
                                                                                                        Distribution

     3

                                                                                                      Advanced
     2                                                                                                economies
                                                                                                        Transmission
     1
                                                                                                        Distribution

      0
          2012-21           2022-30    2031-40    2041-50         2022-30     2031-40     2041-50

                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




           In the NZE Scenario, the annual additions and replacements of power transformer
           capacity are significantly higher. Between 2022 and 2030, the pace reaches
           4.9 TW per year, and accelerates further to 6.5 TW per year from 2031 to 2040.
           The rapid expansion in power infrastructure is needed to support the rapid energy
           transitions in pursuit of net zero emissions goal. From 2041 to 2050 additions
           and replacements decrease to 4.8 TW per year as demand growth begins to slow
           and energy efficiency measures take effect.


Grid investment needs to step up alongside rising
investment in renewable energy
           Over the past five years, investment in power capacity has seen a significant
           increase of nearly 40%, surpassing USD 750 billion in 2022. In contrast, spending
           on grid infrastructure has remained relatively stable, hovering around
           USD 300 billion annually. Global renewable energy investment has been
           increasing rapidly, nearly doubling over the last decade to reach an all-time high
           of USD 600 billion in 2022. Solar PV and wind power are leading the way,
           particularly in China, despite challenges related to costs and supply chains.
           Moreover, major markets such as the United States, China, Europe and India have
           witnessed a remarkable surge in the adoption of renewable energy in recent years.
                                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                      PAGE | 90
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                            Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




Annual investment in power capacity and grids, 2011-2022
                     800
Billion USD (2022)



                                                                                                                        Batteries
                     700

                     600                                                                                                Grids


                     500                                                                                                Power plants

                     400

                     300

                     200

                     100

                       0
                             2011-15    2016     2017        2018        2019       2020       2021        2022

                                                                                                                      IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Source: IEA (2023), World Energy Investment.



                           In the APS, investment in renewable energy installations continues to rise and, in
                           contrast to the recent trend, grid investment increases in lockstep. In 2022,
                           investment in grids comprised 30% of the combined investment in renewable
                           energy and grids. A key enabler of the transition to further renewable power
                           generation during the decade 2021-2030 in the APS, average annual grid
                           investment rises to 40% of the combined investment in renewables and grids at
                           about USD 450 billion, and 50% in the period 2041-2050 at USD 870 billion.


Average annual investment in grids and renewables by regional grouping in the
Announced Pledges Scenario, 2011-2050
                     1 800
Billion USD




                     1 600                                                                                   Renewables advanced
                                                                                                             economies
                     1 400

                     1 200                                                                                   Renewables EMDEs
                     1 000

                      800
                                                                                                             Distribution advanced
                      600                                                                                    economies

                      400
                                                                                                             Distribution EMDEs
                      200

                        0
                               2016 - 2022     2023 - 2030      2031 - 2040         2041 - 2050
                                                                     APS

                                                                                                                      IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Sources: IEA (2022), World Energy Outlook 2022, IEA (2023), World Energy Investment 2023.
                                                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                                    PAGE | 91
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           In 2022 advanced economies invested 20% more in grids than EMDEs, at
           USD 180 billion. However, by 2030 EMDEs invest almost 20% more in grids than
           advanced economies in the APS and maintain a higher share through to 2050. In
           advanced economies, investment in grids is consistently higher than investment
           in renewables in the APS beyond 2030, reaching almost USD 300 billion in 2030
           and averaging over USD 400 billion per year for the period 2041-2050. In EMDEs,
           despite even higher grid investment, the rapid deployment of renewables means
           that they continue to see higher investment levels than grids through to 2050 in
           the APS. This comes even as grid investment passes USD 400 billion after 2035
           and averages around USD 460 billion from 2041 to 2050 in EMDEs.


Risks of delayed grid expansion
Plans need to evolve to align with country targets
           Globally, investment in grids must increase continuously over the coming years
           and decades to ensure secure delivery of clean electricity. Advanced economies
           need to increase annual investment by one-third compared with 2022 in the period
           2025 to 2030 to achieve the APS, and by about 50% to match the NZE Scenario.
           Even more noticeably, EMDEs require a doubling of their annual investment
           compared with 2022 in the period 2025 to 2030 to meet the APS and NZE
           Scenario.

           In order to achieve the required expansion of grids, and to drive the necessary
           investment, this ambition needs to be reflected in national grid expansion plans.
           Typically, grid planning studies define the need for investment in the short to
           medium term – usually 10 years in advance – considering the expected evolution
           in technology, demand and supply requirements. They must account both for the
           business case of building new grids, and the technical impacts and requirements.
           Ideally, expansion plans should also be aligned with other relevant policies, such
           as decarbonisation and climate targets, and harmonised across the distribution
           and transmission systems.

           The methodology and timelines for grid expansion studies vary significantly
           between countries. The cost of transmission expansion is estimated according to
           characteristics such as length of lines, GW of capacity, voltage level and type of
           technology. When looking at ongoing and upcoming transmission grid expansion
           plans globally, there are striking differences in their scope and time horizon, as
           well as the criteria utilised for determining the system needs. Additionally, many
           may be subject to revision based on other grid-specific or cross-sectoral policy
           initiatives. This makes comparison and evaluation of the suitability of plans
           challenging.
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 92
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                                                                      Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




Summary of expansion plans in selected countries

  Country and horizon                Expansion capacity                                Investment                                        Methodology and factors

  United States                        •Regional transmission: 47 300 GW-mi             •The    highest    is   Larson    et   al.         •Expansion modelling studies by certain institutions
  •By 2030, 2035 and 2040              (2035), 115 000 GW-mi (2040)                     USD 2 210 billion with a 98% clean energy          •Congestion, voltage limit, stability limit, thermal limit
  (National Transmission Needs         •Interregional capacity: 157 GW (2030), 655      share in 2050                                      •Others: adequacy, clean energy, curtailment,
  Study 2023)                          GW (2040)                                                                                           resilience, electrification and non-wire alternatives

  European Union*                      • TYNDP (mainly cross-border): 88 GW;            • TYNDP (mainly cross-border): EUR                 1. Scenario building, 2. System needs study and 3.
  •2025-2040 (TYNDP 2022)              18 000 km (AC), 25 000 km (DC)                   140 billion (USD 147 billion)                      CBA (zone clustering, climatic year)
                                                                                        • REPowerEU (full grid): EUR 583.8 billion         •Sustainability criteria (renewables integration, CO2,
                                                                                        (USD 614 billion) by 2030                          etc)

  Japan                                •Interregional: 14 GW (Eastern), 2.8 GW          •Interregional: JPY 6-7 trillion (USD 46-          •Interregional: CBA (fuel cost. GHG cost, adequacy,
  •Toward 2050 (Master plan)           (Western), 2.7 GW (FC)                           53 billion)                                        loss, etc.)
                                       •Interregional: N/A                                                                                 •Intraregional: revenue cap (reliability, peak demand,
                                                                                                                                           power flow, N-1)

  China                                •Interprovincial, to 2025: 60 GW                 •CNY    2.4 trillion  (Chinese      Yuan)          •System cost analysis based on geographical
  •2025 (14th Five-Year Plan)          •Interregional and interprovincial 2025-2030:    (USD 356 billion) (SGCC 2021-2025)                 allocation of resources (e.g. clean energy bases) and
  •2030                                70 GW                                            •CNY 0.67 trillion (USD 99 billion) (CSG           different scenarios for demand forecast. Planning
                                                                                        2021-2025)                                         done at the provincial and national levels

  India                                •Interregional: around 60 GW                     •N/A                                               •Consider certain criteria (N-1, thermal ratings, voltage
  •2022-2027 (NEP Volume-II                                                                                                                ratings, etc.)
  [Transmission], 2019)                                                                                                                    •Surplus/deficit (for long term)

  Brazil                               •41 000 km, 120 000 MVA                          •BRL 158.3 billion    (Brazilian    Real)          •The plan considers the economic aspect and
  •2023-2032 (PDE 2032)                                                                 (USD 31 billion)                                   technical aspect to compare with alternatives

  Korea                                •35 190 C-km (2021) -> 57 681 C-km (2036)        •N/A                                               •N/A
  •2022-2036 (10th BPLE 2023)          •348 580 MVA (2021) -> 517 500 MVA
                                       (2036)

  Indonesia                            •47 723 km                                       •N/A                                               •Consider some criteria (N-1, regional substation and
  •2021-2030 (RUPTL 2021)              •76 662 MVA                                                                                         transformer needs, demand, land use) to meet
                                                                                                                                           Indonesian and international standards

  Australia                            •10 000 km (Step Change scenario as a            •AUD 12.7 billion (scenario weighted)              •Scenario building
  •2022-2050 (2022 ISP)                central scenario)                                (USD 9 billion)                                    •Modelling analysis
                                                                                                                                           •CBA analysis
Notes: CBA = cost-benefit analysis; C-km = circuit kilometres; CSG = China Southern Grid; FC = frequency converter; FYP = Five-Year Plan; GHG = greenhouse gas; GW-mi = gigawatt-miles;
MVA = megavolt amperes; SGCC = State Grid Corporation of China; TYNDP = Ten Year Network Development Plan; NEP = National Electricity Plan; PDE = Ten-Year Energy Expansion Plan;
BPLE = Basic Plan for Long-term Electricity Supply and Demand; RUPTL = National Electricity Supply Business Plan; ISP = Integrated System Plan.




                                                                                                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.
                                                                                          PAGE | 93
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




                     Although data availability is a challenge for developing global estimates, looking
                     at the planned yearly investments in selected countries shows that while
                     investment in grids seems to be accelerating, this is overall not aligned with the
                     APS, and much less with the investment needed for the NZE Scenario, particularly
                     in EMDEs. The planned investment in China implies a 17% increase from 2022
                     level, but still falls short of the level required in the APS, and in particular the
                     planning horizon only gives an indication out to 2025. The apparent increase in
                     Brazil is due to a decline in investment since 2020, as the plan actually represents
                     a 14% decrease when compared with the transmission investment average for the
                     past 5 years, indicating a need for greater efforts – which are also required in other
                     EMDEs. By contrast, transmission planning in some advanced economies does
                     reflect strong increases in investment. In the European Union, investment in
                     transmission increases from USD 16.9 billion in 2022 to roughly USD 29 billion, a
                     70% increase that exceeds the increase in advanced economies in the NZE
                     Scenario, driven by a context with strong policy impetus. Japan’s transmission
                     investment planning is also aligned with the NZE Scenario, with a 41% increase
                     to reach USD 4.8 billion.


Planned and historical average annual investment in transmission grids in selected
countries and regions


                   Plan (2023-2032)       3.0
        Brazil




                              2022 2.1

                   Plan (2021-2025)                                        42.1
        China




                              2022                                  35.8

                   Plan (2023-2027)        4.8
           Japan




                              2022        3.4
  European




                       Plan (-2030)                          28.6
   Union




                              2022                   16.9

                                      0          5      10     15          20     25        30          35       40        45

                                                                                          Billion USD

                                                                                                                 IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Sources: IEA analysis based on Brazil, Ten-Year Energy Expansion Plan; China, SGCC investment plan and CSG
investment plan for the 14th Five-Year-Plan period; Japan, TSO applications for approval of wheeling charges; European
Union, REPowerEU Plan; 2022 values are from IEA (2023), World Energy Investment 2023.



                     Planned investments in transmission grids show a stark difference between
                     advanced economies and EMDEs. In the APS the volume of investment needed
                     in transmission grids in EMDEs is roughly twice that of advanced economies, while
                                                                                                                                     IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                               PAGE | 94
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




                      investment plans today show much greater growth in investment in advanced
                      economies. Significant support will be required in EMDEs to expand transmission
                      grid plans and accelerate investment.

                      In the future, investment in transmission grids will need to continue growing. In
                      advanced economies in the APS transmission investment grows most rapidly to
                      2030 and peaks in around 2035. For EMDEs, investment grows strongly out to its
                      peak around 2040. This means that policies aiming to drive investment in grids
                      need to do so not only in the short term, but also need to maintain and increase
                      the pace in the coming years. This will be of even higher importance for EMDEs,
                      where growth will need to be maintained for almost two decades.


Transmission system investment in the Announced Pledges Scenario by regional
grouping, 2025-2050
                180
  Billion USD




                160                                                                               EMDEs

                140
                                                                                                  Advanced economies
                120

                100

                80

                60

                40

                20

                  0
                   2025          2030       2035        2040            2045            2050

                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Source: IEA (2022), World Energy Outlook 2022.



                      While existing plans show a trend towards an increase in investment in grids
                      globally, the pace falls far short of the investment levels needed in the APS, a
                      challenge that is made greater when considering the need for continued growth
                      until the peak year, particularly in EMDEs. Without an additional policy focus on
                      accelerating investment beyond existing plans, there is a risk of delays to the grid
                      expansions needed around the globe.


Is the supply chain ready for accelerating grid
development?
                      Moving towards a low-carbon energy system and achieving net zero emissions
                      will require an extraordinary acceleration of global deployment of electricity grids
                      and the facilities to support their supply chains. Rapid deployment of the supply
                                                                                                                              IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                       PAGE | 95
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                 Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




            chains for these technologies is crucial in the next decade and any delays will
            mean that reaching net zero by mid-century will become increasingly difficult.

            Grid-related supply chains must meet the needs of clean energy transitions and
            at the same time should ensure and enhance their security, resilience and
            sustainability. The risks in these supply chains can be associated with both short-
            term shocks and long-term changes. They include climate change, natural
            disasters, reliance on supplies from a very small number of countries and the
            surging demand for critical minerals and for raw materials generally.

            The demand for materials to manufacture power system equipment rises
            significantly in the coming decades in the APS, and becomes even more intense
            in the NZE Scenario. In particular, demand for aluminium and copper sees higher
            increases as they are the main materials for making electricity cables and power
            lines. Copper has better electrical conductivity than aluminium, more than
            1.5 times higher, but aluminium is lighter, making it a better solution for overhead
            power lines.


Average annual material needs for transmission and distribution lines in the
Announced Pledges Scenario and Net Zero Scenario, 2012-2050

                                            APS                                         NZE
     35
                                                                                                                Aluminium
Mt




     30
                                                                                                                Copper
     25

     20

     15

     10

     5


          2012-21              2022-30    2031-40    2041-50               2022-30    2031-40    2041-50

                                                                                                           IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: Mt = million tonnes. Material demands for transmission and distribution lines include conductor cables and wires, but
not steel for towers and poles. For transmission and distribution lines, aluminium is used for overhead lines and copper for
cables.



            Demand for copper and aluminium for use in transmission lines, distribution grids
            and transformers combined almost doubles in the decade 2041-2050 in the APS
            compared with the decade 2012-2021. The use of copper for such infrastructure
            increases from an average of 5 Mt/year in 2012-2021 to 5.5 Mt/year over 2022-
            2030, while the use of aluminium grows from 12 Mt/year (2012-2021) to
            13 Mt/year (2022-2030). In 2022-2030 this source of copper demand is almost
            18% of total global copper production in 2021, and the aluminium demand is
            almost 23% of global aluminium production in 2021. In the decade 2041-2050, the
                                                                                                                               IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                         PAGE | 96
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           average annual copper demand for these applications reaches 9 Mt/year while
           aluminium reaches 21 Mt/year. Growth is even more pronounced in the
           NZE Scenario, reaching 12 Mt/year for copper and almost 27 Mt/year for
           aluminium in 2041-2050.

           Demand for electrical steel (GOES) and construction steel for transformer
           production sees a significant increase in the coming decade. Steel demand for
           transformers starts from an average of 5 Mt/year in 2012-2021 and doubles
           (9 Mt/year) in the APS during 2031-2040, while in the NZE Scenario it reaches a
           peak of 13 Mt/year in the same period.


Average annual material needs for transformers in the Announced Pledges Scenario
and Net Zero Scenario, 2012-2050

                                          APS                                 NZE
     30                                                                                             Other
Mt




     25                                                                                             Insulation
                                                                                                    materials
                                                                                                    Transformer oil
     20
                                                                                                    Aluminium
     15
                                                                                                    Copper
     10
                                                                                                    Construction
                                                                                                    steel
      5                                                                                             Electrical steel



          2012-21             2022-30 2031-40 2041-50           2022-30 2031-40 2041-50

                                                                                                    IEA. CC BY 4.0.




           The clean energy transition requires an increase in the extraction of raw materials
           and critical minerals at higher rates than in the past. Mine expansion needs will be
           particularly high in the coming decades to meet the material requirements not only
           of electrical grid expansion, but also the development of other clean energy
           technologies. Global aluminium reserves are at the level of 32 Gt, while extraction
           in 2021 was almost 390 Mt. Similarly for copper and steel, global reserves are
           880 Mt and 85 Gt respectively, while 21 Mt of copper and 1 600 Mt of steel were
           mined in 2021. The leading regions today in aluminium extraction are Asia Pacific
           (including China) and Africa, which produce more than 85% of the global supply,
           and in steel extraction they are Asia Pacific (including China) and Central and
           South America, which produce almost 80% of steel globally. Copper, by contrast,
           is the least geographically concentrated metal and the three leading producers,
           Chile, Peru and China, account for less than half of the global supply.
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 97
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           Meeting the growing demand for materials such as copper requires increasing
           production by expanding the output of existing mines or developing new mines.
           Significant investment is required for the opening of a new mine, which on average
           takes 17 years from discovery to production. The whole process includes mine
           engineering and construction phases, as well as administrative procedures related
           to environmental assessments, permitting and negotiation with local communities.
           Expanding the production capacity of existing mines generally takes much less
           time, because large parts of the infrastructure and equipment are already in place
           and administrative procedures are more straightforward and less at risk of being
           stalled by public opposition. However, the scope for expanding output at existing
           mines in most cases is relatively limited; therefore, investment in new mining
           projects needs to be realised.

           Reusing and recycling materials can reduce the need for additional mining
           capacity, slowing the need for the development of new mines. Most grid
           components can be recycled. Around three-quarters of a transformer’s materials
           can be recycled, especially the steel, copper and oil, while for overhead lines,
           every part of the materials used, including the conductor, is easy to reclaim and
           recycle. The cable conductor, which consists of copper or aluminium, as well as
           the polyethylene used as insulation material, can also be recycled. A small
           proportion of the transformer cannot be reused or recycled, including plastic joints
           and buffers and silica connectors.

           The steel and semiconductor industries will need to expand their production
           capacity. Global manufacturing capacity for GOES was around 3.8 Mt in 2020,
           while the annual average demand in the APS in the coming decade 2031-2040 is
           more than 5.5 Mt/year. Manufacturing is limited to a few producers in China,
           Japan, France, Germany, India, Poland, the Czech Republic, Russia, Brazil,
           Korea and the United States. Building a steel mill for the production of GOES and
           construction steel can take three to five years, including the time required for
           permits, engineering and manufacture of the equipment. Similarly, building a new
           semiconductor plant needs at least four years to reach production.

           Ramping up manufacturing capacity to produce the different technologies used in
           electrical grids (i.e. lines, cables, substations, transformers, FACTS etc.) needs to
           happen simultaneously and in a co-ordinated way. Most of the technologies
           incorporated in electrical grids are mature, often modular and can be mass
           produced. Therefore, increasing manufacturing capacity could be more rapid.
           Commissioning new manufacturing capacity for grid technologies requires around
           three to four years on average. A critical part of the expansion of manufacturing
           capacity is the availability of a skilled workforce. Currently, labour shortages are
           affecting all industries, which also impacts supply chains. Construction workers
           usually require specific certifications and training.
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 98
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           The geographical locations of existing manufacturing facilities, as well as those of
           future investments, play a significant role in the delivery of the final products.
           Currently, manufacturing plants for cables and transformers are mainly located
           close to demand centres (i.e. Europe, the United States, India and China) to avoid
           expensive long-distance transport. However, EMDEs are expected to continue
           making significant progress in expanding access to electricity. The share of the
           distribution and transmission line additions taking place in EMDEs (excluding India
           and China) reaches 45% in 2042-2050 in the NZE Scenario, and 40% in the same
           period in the APS. Domestic manufacturing in these regions could help to reduce
           the lead times for grid projects as well as the total cost. Shipping a 200 km-long
           cable weighing 10 000 tonnes from Europe to Asia can take approximately
           one month, while for the large power transformers, which are extremely heavy at
           100-400 tonnes, up to six months may be needed for international shipping.
           Transporting large power transformers from the manufacturing plant to the final
           destination, usually in parts, is a considerable undertaking, representing up to one-
           fifth of the total cost.

           Given the pace of growth of manufacturing capacity, the sector would also benefit
           from adopting sustainability criteria, reducing the carbon footprint of grid assets.
           This approach should start from the design and engineering phase, promoting the
           adoption of low-impact grid components and technologies through standardisation
           (e.g. SF6-free, eco-design devices, use of secondary raw materials, life-extension
           initiatives), as well as new construction methods and criteria to reduce
           environmental impacts by embracing circularity, with dedicated metrics and KPIs
           to set the baseline and goals. For example, the implementation of circular
           economy solutions can extend the useful life of grid components, reintroducing
           them within the same or in other supply chains to create new products. For
           example, Enel’s Circular Smart Meter project started in 2020 with the installation
           of second-generation smart meters in Italy, with new meters produced reusing
           materials (e.g. plastic) recovered from the disposal of first-generation smart
           meters and other field devices.

           The availability of materials, manufacturing capacity and technical constraints are
           already causing some tightness in today's supply chains. In the future, given the
           growth in clean energy technologies and infrastructure, the availability of materials
           and manufacturing capacity is expected to become a significant challenge for
           supply chains. Governments must ensure that supply chains are secure, resilient
           and sustainable while accelerating the deployment of clean energy technologies
           and related infrastructure. Policies therefore need to be redesigned to address
           these vulnerabilities, taking care to avoid practices that may deter investment.
           Governments should go about designing policies on supply chains and set out
           broad recommendations for priority action.
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 99
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




Delays in grid development would slow clean energy
transitions, raise costs and heighten security concerns
           Should electricity grid development fail to accelerate in line with the APS – with
           more limited investment, modernisation, digitalisation, and operational changes
           than envisioned – there would be a significant risk of stalled clean energy
           transitions around the world. The lack of grid infrastructure development could
           slow clean energy transitions in several ways. A key risk is potentially failing to
           connect new renewable energy projects in a timely manner, slowing their
           deployment. Failing to properly connect new segments of electricity demand could
           also present challenges to the electrification of industry and heating/cooling in
           households, EV uptake and development of electrolysers for hydrogen production.
           Insufficient grid infrastructure development could also increase grid congestion
           and the curtailment of renewables, as well requiring additional backup capacity, in
           turn making energy transitions more expensive. Greater reliance on fossil fuels
           would lead to higher CO2 emissions and long-term temperature increases, while
           exposing importing countries to higher import bills and market volatility. Beyond
           impacts on affordability, slower grid development could also exacerbate the risk
           of power shortages or outages, which come with enormous costs to modern
           economies.


           Impact on renewables deployment
           The Grid Delay Case was developed for this report to explore the potential impacts
           of failing to modernise existing infrastructure and deliver new grid infrastructure in
           a timely manner. In this case, which is a variation of the APS, slower development
           of grid infrastructure puts a major brake on scaling up the deployment and
           integration of solar PV and wind power in all regions. In the Grid Delay Case,
           global solar PV capacity additions rise from 220 GW in 2022 to about 340 GW by
           2030, 10% below the APS level, and 490 GW by 2050, almost 20% below the APS
           level. Wind capacity additions rise from 74 GW in 2022 to 180 GW in 2030 and
           230 GW in 2050, both 15% or more below the APS. For both technologies, there
           is continued market growth in both advanced economies and EMDEs, though not
           as much as in the APS.

           The Grid Delay Case, though modest in its effect on solar PV and wind
           deployment, would significantly slow clean energy transitions around the world.
           The solar PV and wind share of electricity generation would continue to increase
           globally, rising from 12% in 2022 to 30% in 2030 and almost 45% in 2050. This
           would represent major changes for the global power system and require progress
           in many areas related to renewables integration, including market design and
           storage development. But it would fall well short of the nearly 60% share reached
           in the APS that is needed to deliver long-term ambitions, including net zero targets.
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 100
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                 Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




Global solar PV and wind annual capacity additions in the Grid Delay Case and
Announced Pledges Scenario, 2010-2050
                             Solar PV                                                         Wind
       600                                                             300
 GW




                                                                  GW
       500                                                             250

       400                                                             200

       300                                                             150

       200                                                             100

       100                                                              50


                2010       2022         2030      2050                          2010       2022       2030       2050

                       EMDEs                         Advanced economies                           APS

                                                                                                           IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Sources: IEA analysis based on IEA (2022), World Energy Outlook 2022, IEA (2023), Renewable Energy Market Update.



             To compensate for lower contributions from solar PV and wind power in the Grid
             Delay Case, output is increased from other available capacity of various sources,
             including other low-emission sources like nuclear power or fossil-fuel power plants
             equipped with carbon capture, as well as unabated coal- and natural gas-fired
             power plants. Where necessary, additional capacity is added to ensure the
             adequacy of electricity supply, considering the available resources and technology
             preferences of each region. For example, nuclear power is added only in regions
             open to the technology that also have existing nuclear energy development
             programmes. Also in this case, where other low-emission options are more limited,
             additional unabated coal or natural gas power capacity is added. In the selection
             of technologies, the analysis of this case places a primary emphasis on the
             affordability of electricity, over and above fulfilling emission reduction targets.


             Impact on fossil fuels and CO2 emissions
             Globally, the Grid Delay Case has twice the amount of coal and natural gas use
             in 2050 compared with the APS, slowing clean energy transitions and leading to
             higher power sector emissions than in the APS. Coal use in the power sector
             declines by an average of about 3% per year from 2022 to 2030, as it does in the
             APS, before the pace of reductions slows to 1.3% per year over the period to 2050
             in the Grid Delay Case. Natural gas use for power also declines to 2030, at a rate
             of 1.7% per year. However, after 2030 the Grid Delay Case leads to natural gas
             use returning to growth through to 2050. In turn, power sector CO2 emissions are
             significantly higher than in the APS, with the pace of annual reductions slowing
             after 2030. In 2050 power sector CO2 emissions are 8.3 Gt in the Grid Delay Case,
             more than two-and-a-half times higher than the 3.2 Gt in the APS in that year.
                                                                                                                               IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                         PAGE | 101
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           Over the period 2031 to 2050, the cumulative addition of CO2 emissions in the
           Grid Delay Case is 58 Gt higher than the APS, equivalent to the total of the last
           four years of power sector CO2 emissions.

           Total energy sector CO2 emissions in 2050 in the Grid Delay Case are around
           17.5 Gt CO2, compared to 12.4 Gt CO2 in the APS. If CO2 emissions continue their
           trend after 2050, and if there are similar changes in energy related methane
           emissions as well as non‐energy‐related greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the
           median rise in temperature in 2100 would be around 1.9°C. This means that there
           is a 50% probability of remaining below 1.9°C. However, due to uncertainties in
           the earth's response to warming, there is about a 40% chance that the temperature
           rise could exceed 2.0°C in the Grid Delay Case, compared with a median increase
           of 1.7°C in the APS.


Share of solar PV and wind, coal and natural gas use in power generation, and power
sector CO2 emissions worldwide in the Grid Delay Case and the Announced Pledges
Scenario, 2010-2050
         Solar PV and wind share                          Coal and natural gas                              Power sector
           of power generation                               use in power                                   CO2 emissions
   70%                                            120                                           16
                                         EJ




                                                                                           Gt
                                                               Coal
   60%                                                                                          14
                                                  100
                                                                                                12
   50%
                                                  80
                                                                                                10
   40%
                                                                Gas
                                                  60                                             8
   30%
                                                                                                 6
                                                  40
   20%
                                                                                                 4
   10%                                            20
                                                                                                 2
    0%                                              0                                            0
         2010      2030       2050                      2010          2030      2050                 2010       2030        2050

                                                         Grid Delay Case         APS

                                                                                                                 IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: EJ = exajoules; Gt = gigatonnes.
Sources: IEA analysis based on IEA (2022), World Energy Outlook 2022.



           In advanced economies, the Grid Delay Case results in much higher natural gas
           use beyond 2030, which puts a stop to emission reductions in the power sector.
           Clean energy transitions are set to make rapid progress to 2030 in advanced
           economies, raising the share of wind and solar PV in power generation to over
           40%, close to triple the level in 2022, and sharply reducing the amount of coal-
           fired generation. To date, a 40% share of variable renewables in annual electricity
           generation is at the frontier of experience for large power systems. Moving beyond
           that level would require several advanced technologies and approaches, including
           more flexible power plants, energy storage and tapping demand response
           potential, all which would benefit from robust grid modernisation and development.
                                                                                                                                     IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                           PAGE | 102
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           In the Grid Delay Case, some of these elements are delivered, supporting the
           share of wind and solar PV to approach 55% of electricity generation in 2050,
           although this is well short of the 65% reached in the APS.

           The options to compensate for the slower deployment of wind and solar PV are
           often limited in advanced economies. Most other renewable energy resources
           have been tapped extensively, including hydropower, or have proven costly to
           date such as concentrating solar power. While nuclear power is a viable option in
           several advanced economies, other options generally come at lower cost (even if
           we assume significant cost reductions from recent nuclear projects). As a result of
           these factors, in our analysis, less wind and solar PV would mean greater reliance
           on natural gas. The use of natural gas in power hits a floor around 2035 in the
           Grid Delay Case and rises again to 2050. In turn, CO2 emissions from the power
           sector hit a floor as well, staying at about 0.8 Gt per year to 2050.

           Among advanced economies, the largest impacts are in the European Union and
           United States, as both look to rely heavily on solar PV and wind to decarbonise
           electricity. In the European Union, the Grid Delay Case leads to over eight times
           the level of natural gas use in power in 2050 than in the APS, leading to 80 Mt
           higher CO2 emissions. In the United States, natural gas use is over four times as
           high in 2050 as in the APS, and power sector CO2 emissions are about 400 Mt
           higher in 2050. Australia, Mexico, Japan and Korea would also see significant
           impacts on natural gas and CO2 emissions from slower grid development.


Share of solar PV and wind, coal and natural gas use in power generation, and power
sector CO2 emissions in advanced economies in the Grid Delay Case and the
Announced Pledges Scenario, 2010-2050
         Solar PV and wind share                         Coal and natural gas                                Power sector
           of power generation                              use in power                                     CO2 emissions
   70%                                            50                                              6
                                         EJ




                                                                                             Gt




   60%                                                                                            5
                                                  40
                                                         Coal
   50%
                                                                                                  4
   40%                                            30            Gas
                                                                                                  3
   30%                                            20
                                                                                                  2
   20%
                                                  10                                              1
   10%

    0%                                             0                                              0
         2010      2030       2050                     2010       2030          2050                  2010       2030        2050

                                                         Grid Delay Case          APS

                                                                                                                   IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: EJ = exajoules; Gt = gigatonnes.
Sources: IEA analysis based on IEA (2022), World Energy Outlook 2022.
                                                                                                                                     IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                          PAGE | 103
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                   Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           In EMDEs, the Grid Delay Case would stifle transitions away from unabated coal-
           fired power and lead to rising natural gas use for power. Although EMDEs are set
           for substantial uptake of solar PV and wind to 2030, rising from 10% of electricity
           generation in 2022 to nearly one-quarter in 2030, a lack of grid development could
           create significant barriers to holding that pace of transition, including more limited
           regional integration (between countries) and weaker connections within countries.
           In the Grid Delay Case, the share of solar PV and wind continues rising to 2050,
           but stays below 40%, whereas in the APS it moves past 55%.

           To compensate for less solar PV and wind, EMDEs would need to invest
           significantly in other new power plants to meet growing demand, and many would
           be fossil-fuelled when affordability is the primary concern. While there is more
           untapped hydropower potential in EMDEs, there is growing public resistance to
           their development and their costs are not particularly low. Expanding nuclear
           power could play a role, but projects have long lead times, and they are often more
           expensive than alternatives. As a result, the continued use of coal-fired power and
           continued growth for natural gas-fired power are part of the cost-effective
           replacement for solar PV and wind in EMDEs. Coal use in power in 2050 in the
           Grid Delay Case is more than double the level in the APS, and natural gas use is
           60% higher. In turn, the power sector does not deliver the steep CO2 emissions
           reductions in the APS, but rather steady and modest annual reductions to 2050.
           In the year 2050 power sector CO2 emissions in EMDEs in the Grid Delay Case
           are two-and-a-half times the level of the APS.


Share of solar PV and wind, coal and natural gas use in power generation, and power
sector CO2 emissions in EMDEs in the Grid Delay Case and the Announced Pledges
Scenario, 2010-2050
         Solar PV and wind share                           Coal and natural gas                          Power sector
           of power generation                                use in power                               CO2 emissions
   60%                                            120                                        12
                                         EJ




                                                                                        Gt




   50%                                            100                                        10
                                                               Coal
   40%                                            80                                         8

   30%                                            60                                         6

   20%                                            40                                         4
                                                                Gas
   10%                                            20                                         2

    0%                                              0                                         0
         2010      2030       2050                      2010      2030      2050                  2010        2030       2050

                                                          Grid Delay Case     APS

                                                                                                               IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Notes: EJ = exajoules; Gt = gigatonnes.
Sources: IEA analysis based on IEA (2022), World Energy Outlook 2022.
                                                                                                                                 IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                           PAGE | 104
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions          Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




           Among EMDEs, the largest effects of the Grid Delay Case are in China and India.
           These two countries have by far the largest power systems in EMDEs by total
           generation, and they also rely heavily on coal-fired power today. Where wind and
           solar PV have difficulty scaling up to the levels in the APS, those transitions away
           from coal would be disrupted. In China, the reductions for coal use in power to
           2050 in the Grid Delay Case are only half as much as in the APS, while in India
           the result could be for coal-fired power to return to growth in the long term.
           Countries in Southeast Asia and Africa would also face headwinds in the transition
           away from coal if grid development hampers solar PV and wind growth.


           Impacts beyond CO2 emissions
           Alternatively, a lack of timely development of grid infrastructure could lead to
           higher-cost solutions for those regions or countries that focus primarily on
           achieving their emission reductions targets. As solar PV and wind power are now
           the most competitive new sources of electricity in most regions, the cost of
           decarbonisation faces strong upward pressure when shifting to other low-emission
           options. For example, an analysis by NREL found that in the United States,
           constrained grid infrastructure would contribute to a high-cost transition scenario
           and, when paired with other constraints on generation, could double the total
           power system cost compared with an unconstrained case.

           In the Grid Delay Case, the additional use of natural gas and coal would raise
           fossil fuel import bills for importing countries by over USD 500 billion from 2031 to
           2050. This would make energy less affordable for consumers and economies
           more vulnerable to market price variability and disruptions. The additional annual
           import bill of USD 25 billion would go to import an average of 80 billion cubic
           metres more natural gas and nearly 50 million tonnes more coal. Natural gas
           would account for almost 90% of the additional import bills, with the remainder for
           coal. The burden of additional fossil fuel import costs would be borne roughly
           equally between advanced economies, mainly Japan, Korea and the European
           Union, and emerging market and developing economies, primarily in India,
           Southeast Asia and other developing economies in Asia.
                                                                                                                        IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 105
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                 Chapter 3: Identifying the gap – the pathway to future grids




Additional annual fossil fuel import bills by fuel in the Grid Delay Case compared with
the Announced Pledges Scenario, 2030, 2040 and 2050
                50
  USD billion



                                                                                                            Advanced
                                                                                                            economies
                40

                                                                                                            EMDEs
                30


                20


                10


                 0
                        2030        2040          2050         2030          2040            2050
                                 Natural gas                                 Coal

                                                                                                           IEA. CC BY 4.0.
Sources: IEA analysis based on IEA (2022), World Energy Outlook 2022.



                     Beyond higher emissions or higher costs, slower grid development could also
                     raise the likelihood and expected duration of power outages, with potentially
                     massive effects on the economy and individuals’ daily lives. These risks would
                     expand over time as more end uses are electrified, including transport and
                     heating/cooling, adding to the reliance today on electricity in health care,
                     information technology and entertainment. Less reliable grids can also add to
                     disparities between wealthy sectors and households and poorer ones, as the more
                     affluent can invest in autonomous backup or primary power supplies to a greater
                     extent than poorer communities.



                                                                                                                               IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                         PAGE | 106
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                    Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




Chapter 4: Policy
recommendations

           Grid development is currently falling short of the pace needed to ensure secure,
           reliable and cost-effective energy transitions. Urgent action is needed to create
           the policy, regulatory and investment environment that will enable grids to keep
           up. Policy makers have a central role to play in creating this enabling framework
           and carrying out the necessary regulatory overhaul. At the same time, industry
           across the entire supply chain will need to stand ready to deliver at the speed and
           scale required. Interaction between the full range of stakeholders will require
           strengthening to ensure that plans are carried out swiftly, securely and
           democratically.

           As we have seen previously in Chapter 1 and Chapter 2, power grid development
           will depend on contexts that can be highly localised. While some aspects, such as
           supply chains, are global, many of the key policies and regulations will depend on
           the particularities of the country and region. In many cases, differences between
           advanced economies and EMDEs will be significant, and even between countries
           of similar economic development but different market structures. Grids in EMDEs
           are currently falling the furthest behind and need particular attention so that lack
           of development does not lead to clean transitions facing delays and higher costs.
           At the same time, it is recognised that they face unique challenges.

           Notwithstanding local context, we have identified six priority areas with broad
           applicability where policy makers can act to ensure grids enable energy transitions
           rather than becoming a bottleneck: improving grid planning, enabling investment,
           improving the speed and efficiency of grid deployment and operation, securing
           future supply chains, harnessing digitalisation and cultivating skilled workforces.
           The recommendations that follow are grouped under these main topics, and can
           serve as guiding principles to be considered when developing policies and
           regulations, adapted to the local realities and requirements.




      Key policy recommendations to boost grid capacity development
      Policy maker action is needed across six key areas to ensure grids do not become
      a bottleneck in clean energy transitions:
          Bring planning up to date. To support energy transitions, grid planning needs
           to be significantly improved. Increased co-ordination of planning across
           different parts of the power system and the economy will be essential, as well
                                                                                                       IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 107
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                         Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




           as improved regional co-ordination. Incorporating high-quality long-term
           scenario development that reflects climate goals and engages all relevant
           stakeholders is key to enable coordination between sectors and manage
           uncertainty in the path and pace of development.
          Unlock investment. Investment is one of the key barriers to accelerated
           development of grid capacity. Here, EMDEs face special challenges related to
           the cost of capital and budget restrictions. Improving the way grid companies
           are remunerated, driving targeted funding for grids and improving cost
           transparency can lift investment. In some cases, enabling private participation
           could provide additional investment.
          Address barriers to grid development. Grid expansion and modernisation
           needs to happen at speed and scale, and building new grids needs to go hand
           in hand with improved use of existing infrastructure and new technologies.
           Policy makers can speed up progress on grids by ensuring regulatory risk
           assessments allow for anticipatory investments, streamlining administrative
           processes, fostering societal support, and ensuring there are incentives for
           better use of existing infrastructure, as well as for new capacity.
          Secure supply chains. Accelerated grid capacity development and
           deployment of new technologies will place increasing strain on supply chains.
           Governments can support expansion of these supply chains by creating firm
           and transparent project pipelines and by standardising procurement and
           technical installations. At the same time, a focus on interoperability of different
           solutions will support flexibility in the future, while cybersecurity concerns for
           grid components should be addressed.
          Leverage digitalisation. Digitalisation of transmission and distribution grids
           can continue supporting efficiency and security. Ensuring transparent
           frameworks for collection and handling of data, as well as the development of
           AI and machine learning tools, can increase the value obtained from these
           solutions. At the same time, increased focus on cybersecurity risk assessments
           and proactive and reactive capabilities is essential to ensure the security of
           power systems.
          Build a skilled workforce. There is already a significant need for a high
           number of skilled white- and blue-collar workers across the entire supply chain,
           as well as at operators and in regulating institutions. Building out a pipeline of
           talent is essential, as is ensuring digital skills are integrated into power industry-
           related curricula. At the same time, governments need to ensure they manage
           the impacts of increased automation on workers through reskilling and
           incentivising on-the-job training.
                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 108
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                      Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




We need to step up planning to be social,
ambitious, robust and visionary
           Power system planning provides information about system needs in the long term
           and guidance for investment and policy making. The power sector needs to be
           planned with a long-term perspective since components of the power grid and
           large power plants remain in place for decades. Demand growth used to be the
           main driver for power sector planning: linking GDP forecasts to demand growth
           and then planning investment in power supply, transmission and distribution
           capacity to serve it. Now, energy transitions require a rapid evolution of the way
           electricity is produced and used, which calls for important changes in the way the
           development of power grids is planned.

           In the coming years, multiple factors will affect the sufficiency of grid capacity,
           stability and strength. Demand growth will be driven or intensified by electrification
           of other sectors like transport and buildings. Generation characteristics are
           changing and will prompt a need for grids to modernise, to get better use out of
           existing infrastructure, to expand, and to host more distributed sources of
           flexibility. Grids will also need to become more interconnected across regions and
           sectors, making them interdependent on neighbouring systems, and linkages with
           infrastructure in other sectors like gas and hydrogen will increase.

           In this context, power grid planning has become conceptually much more complex,
           and there is an increasing need to align with the needs and outlooks of a wider
           range of stakeholders, including the public. This will require more integrated
           approaches that address the linkages within the power sector and between
           sectors. Co-ordination between the distribution and transmission levels will be
           much more important than in the past as distribution grids increasingly host
           generation and flexibility resources. Due to grid deployment’s slower timeframes
           relative to renewables and distributed energy resources, grid planning will need to
           support anticipatory investment to ensure grid infrastructure does not act as a
           barrier.

           While energy transitions will drive a need for similar overall evolutions in grid
           planning around the globe, country contexts will define the most urgent priorities.
           In EMDEs, electrification will add to the increases in demand already being driven
           by GDP and population growth. A key priority for planning will be to support an
           environment where the necessary investments in infrastructure can take place.
           From this perspective broad stakeholder engagement and transparency and
           regularity in the planning process are critical. The tools, methodologies and
           processes used to analyse and indicate the new infrastructure needs will be
           different from those of the past. Policy makers, regulators and utilities need to put
                                                                                                         IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 109
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




           in place appropriate institutions, regulations, technical requirements and
           capabilities, and collaboration platforms so that consensus on new planning
           approaches is reached.

           Many advanced economies will need to cater to electrification-driven demand
           growth after decades of flat or declining demand. The planning process will need
           to ensure that well-developed but ageing grid infrastructure can be upgraded and
           modernised to function efficiently under new paradigms, such as allowing for two-
           way power flows and high inputs from non-synchronous sources. Extensive
           infrastructure expansion will be needed again for the first time in many years,
           requiring engagement with society to secure their buy-in; the link between clean
           energy transitions and grid expansion needs to be just as clear as the link with
           wind turbines and solar panels. The planning process will need to navigate these
           changes in the context of unbundled power sectors with many players and
           incorporate the perspectives of diverse stakeholders to create robust, effective
           planning. Scenario analysis will be needed to inform debate around options that
           are not least-cost but may have higher social acceptability.

           Important positive developments in grid planning have been achieved in recent
           years. Many regions are introducing new long-term planning exercises that help
           to bridge the gaps between traditional planning and the needs of energy
           transitions. However, these are initial steps towards a new paradigm, with most
           regions still needing to improve planning integration across multiple fronts. Many
           of these plans do not have regular schedules, but currently exist as one-off
           studies. There is still a lack of robust scenario analysis that accounts for multiple
           plausible pathways based on timely, comprehensive and regular stakeholder
           consultation. The level of close co-ordination that will be needed between planners
           within and between regions is still not there.

           These are the priorities to enable planning studies to step up and effectively guide
           energy transitions:

               Improve co-ordination between grid planning and generation planning. Many
                regions are still dependent on grid planning processes that follow a traditional
                sequence where generation projects are planned first and grids are put in place to
                connect them, an approach that is no longer fit for purpose. The deployment of
                more diverse and distributed generation sources in regions without grid access
                will not take place without anticipatory investments in grid infrastructure. In
                particular, new resources such as offshore wind or remote renewables-rich areas
                may need dedicated grid development, and the planning process needs to assess
                the benefits of building shared infrastructure in advance of generation project
                planning.
               Enhance scenario development to account for growing sectoral linkages
                and different technology pathways using a multidimensional approach.
                Currently, the scenario development underlying grid planning studies is often
                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 110
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                         Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




                simplified and may mainly account for uncertainty in total electricity demand
                growth. Grid planning studies need a robust process for scenario development to
                reflect the main likely development trajectories, incorporating climate policy and
                linkages with the transport, heating and industrial sectors as well as natural gas
                and hydrogen, while also linking medium-term plans to the long-term view.
                Scenario analysis is also critical to inform public debate and quantify the costs and
                benefits of relevant technology pathways that might have higher costs but also
                greater acceptability. Reflecting sectoral linkages is a particular priority in
                advanced economies where electrification is the main driver of demand growth
                and the development of clean hydrogen demand will come earlier.
               Improve the efficacy of stakeholder engagement through transparency and
                clearly defined, regular processes. While most power system planning
                exercises have stakeholder engagement processes, these are highly challenging
                to get right and in many regions they are currently not delivering the level of
                consensus and confidence in future grid development that is needed. Planning
                processes need to proactively engage relevant groups early and often to benefit
                from a wide range of perspectives as well as helping to build investor confidence
                and public trust. Transparency in the analytical approaches used as a basis for
                robust, informed exchange is a key component to ensure engagement is effective.
                Planning bodies that do not publish their models and input assumptions and allow
                for multiple rounds of engagement on this basis during each planning cycle should
                make efforts to do so. In EMDEs, defining clear engagement processes and
                increasing transparency are priorities to build investor confidence.
               Increase co-ordination between distribution and transmission grid planning
                to reflect greater complexity and potential at the distribution level. Most
                distribution and transmission planning processes are geared towards a context
                where power is generated away from demand centres and transported through
                the transmission system to the distribution network. This is not fit for purpose for
                the distribution grids of the future, hosting distributed generation and flexibility
                resources that can provide services to the system and even lead to bidirectional
                power flows or self-sufficiency. To fully tap the potential of these resources,
                transmission and distribution planning needs to be more co-ordinated, so that all
                potential solutions are considered in a technology-neutral way. The flexibility
                solutions provided by distributed energy resources, including storage, microgrids
                and other non-wire options, can be an alternative to network reinforcement,
                avoiding some expensive and often hard-to-implement structural investment, with
                possible positive effects on affordability and sustainability. The fast pace of
                demand growth in EMDEs makes co-ordination between distribution and
                transmission planning a key priority.
               Improve co-ordination of grid planning between regions to tap into the
                benefits and manage the complexities of cross-border interdependencies.
                Energy transitions and particularly the rising share of variable renewable
                generation increase the benefits of sharing resources across wider regions, while
                adding to the complexity of cross-border power flows, which become more
                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 111
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                          Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




                bidirectional. This prompts a greater need for co-ordinated planning for grids and
                renewables across national boundaries. Countries with little interconnection,
                including many EMDEs, will benefit from accelerating cross-border infrastructure
                and need to step up co-ordinated planning to enable this. Establishing common
                practices for cross-border financing of projects to ensure the fair sharing of
                benefits will be an important step to delivering efficient cross-border infrastructure.
                Well-interconnected countries will also need to ensure co-ordinated planning with
                neighbours for transition plans that increase the reliance on trade for renewables
                integration and generation adequacy.
               Enhance the assessment of multiple risks within planning studies. While the
                need for risk assessment as part of grid planning is not new, potential threats to
                security of supply come from multiple angles with many risks increasing, including
                climate change and natural risks, cybersecurity, supply chain security, geopolitical
                risk, social acceptance risks, variable generation uncertainty with multi-year
                weather analysis, and hard-to-predict events such as the Covid-19 pandemic. To
                address these, the suite of planning studies will need to include advanced
                assessment of credible risks as well as appropriate measures for mitigation and
                resilience. Such analysis is essential to support decisions to invest in projects that
                are worthwhile on the basis of their benefits in a range of credible risk scenarios,
                rather than only considering typical criteria of necessity under normal operating
                conditions. This will be important in all countries, with EMDEs facing the most
                extreme impacts from climate change, and advanced economies confronting
                important climate and geopolitical risks.


Financing and investment overhauls are key
to accelerating and optimising grid capacity
expansion
           The major trends reshaping power systems – decarbonisation, the rapid
           decentralisation of generation, and the deployment of new loads at the grid edge
           – also entail a redefinition of the role of transmission and distribution networks and
           therefore how we pay for them. Across the globe, investment in grids needs to
           accelerate; this can be done by setting up targeted programmes for grid
           investment, updating regulatory frameworks to support the right investments and
           identifying new sources of value. However, the context for these investments and
           specific improvements varies between advanced economies and EMDEs. For
           example, in advanced economies the priority should be updating remuneration
           schemes and enhancing grid operations. For a significant share of EMDEs, the
           main problem with financing investment relates to the limited resources of utilities
           that cannot recover their costs from consumers, and the double task of both
           upgrading the quality of the grid and accommodating rapidly increasing demand.
                                                                                                             IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 112
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                           Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




           The priorities for overhauling grid investment and financing are as follows:

               Target funding for grids where needed to accelerate development to the
                level required to support efficient energy transitions. To date, the pace of
                investment has been hampered by the lack of a clear perspective on the level of
                grid expansion that is necessary and the amount of financing that is available to
                undertake these investments. Government initiatives are now recognising the
                need for targeted funding to boost grid investment that currently sits well below
                the levels needed to achieve energy transitions at least cost. This funding should
                not be limited to just grids, but also flexibility and integration of distributed energy
                resources through all means available.
               Remove barriers to innovation and operational improvements in networks
                that are currently embedded in existing remuneration structures. Current
                remuneration mechanisms tend to be biased towards capital investment, which
                discourages investment in operational practices that improve the efficiency of
                grids. Across both restructured power markets and vertically integrated power
                systems, adding remuneration components based on the outcomes or quality of
                the service they deliver can contribute to reducing the material requirement for
                investing in hard infrastructure, while remunerating new services. For example,
                these might enable improved line utilisation, better grid visibility or reduced outage
                times.
               Improve the visibility of future remuneration within investment plans to
                accelerate and ensure the delivery of necessary grid investment. At present
                the practice of remunerating investment costs retroactively at the end of each
                regulatory period leads networks to undertake investment at the end of each
                period, which delays progress in grid expansion. Introducing ex ante processes
                and defining the scope of expected investments ahead of each regulatory period
                have been seen to encourage investment throughout the regulatory period and
                accelerate grid development.
               Review remuneration mechanisms to ensure their compatibility with
                specific policy objectives. In specific cases, the drive to reduce the overall cost
                of managing the grid can reduce network operators’ ability to invest in innovation
                or the roll-out of specific technologies. To address this, regulators and grid
                operators can collaborate to identify priority programmes, and regulators can
                allocate funds through special innovation or outcome-based remuneration
                mechanisms. For example, allocating special tranches of remuneration to
                innovation programmes (e.g. in Brazil) or introducing a remuneration element
                contingent on smart meter roll-out indicators (e.g. in Italy and recently introduced
                in India) can accelerate grid modernisation.


           While the above recommendations apply to most countries, specific actions
           should be a priority for countries with integrated power industries and particularly
           for EMDEs, where accelerating grid investment requires improving existing
           infrastructure while meeting grid expansion needs. Besides this double challenge,
                                                                                                              IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 113
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                         Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




           there are specific context-dependent factors that need to be taken into account to
           ensure effective investment. These investments need to consider utilities’ limited
           resources due to the lack of cost-reflective tariffs, and the typically greater share
           of equity in grid investment due to a cost of capital that can be several times higher
           than in advanced economies.

           This brings about the need to improve the financing conditions for new grid
           projects and introduce instruments that help de-risk investments in network
           infrastructure and reduce the cost of capital:

               Improve the transparency of the different cost drivers for integrated utilities
                by accounting separately for generation, network and retail costs. For many
                integrated utilities, the lack of separate accounts for the different activities often
                enables cross-financing of the various productive activities, which makes it harder
                to identify where the greatest cost burden lies and where targeted investment may
                deliver greater savings. Unbundled accounting can also provide an opportunity for
                greater transparency in contexts where private participation is not legally allowed
                or restricted to very specific instances. For governments interested in gradually
                bringing additional investment into the power system, clearly identifying cost-
                optimisation opportunities can help them identify areas suitable for private
                participation, guide investment plans and reduce cross-subsidies.
               Develop clear methodologies for the allocation of interconnection costs and
                streamline permitting to reduce the cost of financing. In power systems where
                network investments are mainly carried out by the incumbent utility, banks may
                not be familiar with the type and length of investment required. Uncertainties
                around project development will only add to the cost of financing new projects.
                Clarifying licensing, the allocation of costs, and the expected revenues can not
                only help streamline the development of grid projects themselves, but also guide
                investment in new generation to areas where they maximise the utilisation of the
                existing network.
               Identify areas where additional funding is a key barrier and assess whether
                private participation can accelerate investment. Lack of resources due to
                tariffs that do not reflect costs and the high cost of borrowing may impede utilities
                in EMDEs from undertaking grid expansion investment on their own. In such cases
                bringing some level of private participation into the industry can draw in additional
                funds. Full restructuring or privatisation may not always be politically feasible, so
                targeted programmes for investment in transmission, such as in Brazil and Kenya,
                allow the engagement of private capital to achieve specific policy goals.
               Establish a balance between revenue certainty and oversight to facilitate
                private participation. Because network infrastructure projects are the backbone
                of the power system and long-duration investments, both governments and utilities
                need to have certainty over the delivery and service quality of projects where
                private actors are engaged. At the same time investors will prefer mechanisms
                that provide clarity over the revenue streams and contract terms. Experience in a
                number of countries provides examples of models that have shown success in
                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 114
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                        Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




                driving private investment. Models for private participation such as concessions
                and BOOT can enable investment in grid infrastructure while providing certainty
                for investors and remaining accountable to government. As with other
                mechanisms, it is important that this is complemented by effective regulatory
                monitoring tools to ensure that the projects are indeed delivered in a timely manner
                and cost-effectively.


Stronger grids will require both rapid
expansion and improved use of assets
           Even if grid strengthening projects are planned and financed appropriately, they
           can block the energy transition if they cannot be implemented, or slow it down
           where there are significant delays. Either way, this affects our ability to meet
           existing climate pledges. It takes years longer to implement grid projects,
           particularly for transmission, than it does to expand distributed energy resources
           and renewables. The public will expect unrestricted uptake of EVs and electric
           space cooling/heating. The smooth delivery of grid projects that are built on time
           is crucial not only for the timely and secure integration of distributed energy
           resources and renewables, but also to cater for the increase in consumption from
           economic growth and electrification.

           Advanced economies with well-developed grids are facing the need to replace
           ageing assets, increase the capacity of existing transmission and distribution lines,
           and build new infrastructure to access bulk renewable energy such as offshore
           wind. This means the priorities are to efficiently manage maintenance outages for
           upgrading work, redesign elements to cope with increased power flows (uprating),
           and at the same time build new transmission corridors. Co-ordinating these types
           of projects, including scheduling the works and preparing operational measures to
           ensure grid security, is a major challenge because of the volume of projects that
           need to be managed. In addition, where there are cross-jurisdictional
           interconnections as in Europe and North America, the co-ordination of projects
           across borders is also required. When delays or changes to the schedule of works
           occur, for example due to permitting, supply delivery, weather or contractor
           availability, they affect a whole chain of other projects that need co-ordination and
           adjustment.

           Where new grid infrastructure or significant upgrades are required, obtaining the
           necessary permits from local authorities and residents can be a challenge. It can
           be particularly difficult, expensive and time-consuming to obtain permissions to
           build and fulfil the environmental impact mitigation requirements for long
           transmission lines that cross multiple properties and municipal areas, through
           geographically diverse landscapes. Even for distribution, particularly for
           underground systems, works can be a disturbance to local residents and must be
                                                                                                           IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 115
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                           Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




           anticipated and planned in an acceptable manner. In the case of offshore grids,
           there is a need to clarify who should be responsible for building the transmission
           infrastructure: the onshore TSO, the wind farm owner or someone else. Several
           studies have shown that inviting a TSO to lead development can minimise costs
           due to economies of scale and risk reduction.

           In EMDEs, where demand growth and decarbonisation objectives concurrently
           drive the need for grid expansion, delays in implementation not only hamper the
           energy transition but also hold back economic growth.

           Priorities for accelerating grid development and improving the use of existing
           assets are:

               Improve regulatory risk assessments. Regulation surrounding the
                requirements to meet when building new grids has usually focused on avoiding
                the risk of stranded assets as much as possible, and has not managed to capture
                the risk of insufficient grid development. Adjustments to the regulatory framework
                can better capture the value that new projects add and open the door to needed
                anticipatory investments. This equally applies to cross-border projects, such as
                new offshore wind hubs, where cost allocation should be based not only on the
                location of the infrastructure, but the expected benefits coming from it.
               Address administrative barriers to new grid projects to accelerate the pace
                of grid development. Permitting and other approvals are a key barrier
                contributing to the long development lead times for grids seen in many regions.
                Targeted policies and digitalisation to streamline and accelerate approval
                processes are essential to enable grid development to support the energy
                transition, rather than acting as a bottleneck to the deployment of clean generation
                and other technologies.
               Actively foster and account for societal support for grid development when
                planning for power system development. Many grid projects see significant
                delays due to social opposition. In addition to active public engagement, best
                practices can be adopted to limit the impact of grid infrastructure on communities
                and the environment. Clear and continuous information sharing and a structured
                long-term communication plan can help reduce misinformation. Transparent and
                fair compensation measures for landowners and local communities can also
                improve acceptance. Moreover, new forms of collaboration between governments
                and developers can be leveraged to explore nature-positive outcomes and
                minimise land use, for instance combining grids with existing infrastructure such
                as pipelines.
               Increase the focus on improved use of infrastructure within remuneration
                frameworks. Simply building grids is not enough to solve existing issues, and
                better utilising existing and future infrastructure will be key. For this to be properly
                incentivised, remuneration frameworks must be compatible with this new
                paradigm. Similar shifts have already been observed in the evolution of
                remuneration frameworks, from cost-of-service to outcomes-based remuneration.
                                                                                                              IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 116
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




                Investing in operational improvements can contribute to increasing hosting
                capacity in the short term, buying time for more comprehensive grid expansion. In
                systems with liberalised power markets, the use of locational signals is paramount
                for efficient operation of the system.


Secure, diverse supply chains for grid
infrastructure are critical
           Even if the necessary investments are identified and secured, there is risk of
           jeopardising climate goals if essential grid components cannot be delivered on
           time.

           Transmission and distribution capacity reinforcement requires both commodity
           and niche components, which correspond with different likely stress points in the
           supply chain. Commodity components like wires and distribution transformers
           have a diverse range of suppliers, but increased demand will squeeze the raw
           material supply chain. In contrast, niche components like transmission grid
           transformers, subsea cables and grid support devices are supplied by a limited
           number of manufacturers and delivery capacity becomes a concern. Moreover,
           construction capacity – particularly for transmission and offshore infrastructure –
           will become a constraint because they rely on special skills and equipment.

           Diversifying supply chains is a typical measure to improve their robustness and
           secure the timely delivery of infrastructure. With a lack of local manufacturing
           capacity, EMDEs largely rely on imported components, which increases the
           delivery cost. They also tend to lack capable construction capacity. Higher risk of
           timely delivery impacts the cost of capital. Countries with constrained capital tend
           to opt for cheaper suppliers that can deliver locally, making diversification a
           prohibitively expense strategy.

           Niche components have limited total demand but are critically important to
           electricity supply globally. The limited volume means that the manufacturing
           capacity tends to be geographically concentrated and the manufacturing process
           difficult to standardise. Orders with large volumes of standardised technical
           specifications are cheaper to manufacture with quality assurance. This makes
           them difficult to access even for countries with capital if the orders are few, have
           specialised technical requirements or are located far from the place of component
           manufacture.

           For both commodity and niche components, suppliers of grid equipment need to
           step up production capacity to meet the expected delivery timelines. Governments
           can take a number of actions to help strengthen the supply chain and improve
           robust delivery capability:
                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 117
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




               Support a sustainable and firm project pipeline with government-endorsed
                long-term grid investment plans. Current firm pipelines for grids do not reflect
                the pace of grid expansion required for energy transitions, despite being a
                requirement for manufacturing firms to commit investment in sufficient new
                manufacturing capacity. Governments should request long-term grid investment
                plans to be prepared domestically and regionally, against a delivery timeline.
                Endorsing these plans and tracking their implementation can improve the security
                and pace of grid investment and incentivise the development of supply chains.
               Standardise procurement procedures, technical specifications and
                installation where possible to accelerate the pace of delivery. Currently, a lack
                of certainty about the precise specifications for future projects and significant
                diversity across markets are barriers to manufacturers setting up the needed
                delivery capacity. While not all aspects of grid projects can be standardised,
                governments can increase alignment between future projects by forging alliances
                across regions to firm up technical requirements. For example, long-term
                framework agreements to build grid connections for the North Sea Hub define
                "core components" of the grid equipment needed to transport offshore wind power
                to onshore demand centres. With the assurance that a large volume of standard
                components will be purchased, manufacturers are incentivised to set up dedicated
                and efficient delivery capacity to ensure timely production.
               Introduce standards to ensure interoperability between grid components
                from different manufacturers, particularly for DC technology. DC grids have
                much greater potential for interoperability challenges than AC technology, which
                risks causing delays to new grid projects if components from different
                manufacturers do not work well together. This is becoming more relevant during
                energy transitions, especially with the increased development of meshed offshore
                grids. Policy makers should ensure that standards for interoperability are
                introduced as soon as possible to avoid future delays and increased costs arising
                from incompatible technologies.
               Support the diversified supply of grid components that have a very limited
                number of top-tier suppliers. The manufacture of some grid components
                currently has a high concentration among only a handful of top-tier suppliers,
                which makes diversification of the supply chain challenging. This is particularly
                seen in components such as HVDC converter stations, extra-high-voltage
                transformers, niche equipment like synchronous condensers and STATCOMs,
                and alternatives to SF6 in switchgear. Particularly in EMDEs and countries outside
                the European Union and United States, accessing suppliers can prove difficult.
                Governments may overcome this by pooling their procurement as a region, or
                working together with second-tier suppliers so that they can increase their
                competitiveness. Improving the global diversity of specialised component
                suppliers will improve the pace of grid deployment and possibly reduce the costs.
               Consider measures to incentivise sustainable practices in supply chains.
                For components with a high emissions intensity or constituents considered to be
                a pollutant in their life cycle, it makes sense to encourage sustainable practices.
                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 118
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                         Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




                Regulators can reward the circular economy and CO2 impact reduction when
                evaluating proposed investments by DSOs and TSOs. Governments can
                encourage the industry to adopt more sustainable practices through their own
                procurement and by supporting industries and initiatives that are developing
                alternative sustainable solutions. For example, the AmpUp programme in the
                United States introduces a dedicated framework to implement circular solutions
                for electric utilities, and a workstream launched by the municipality of Amsterdam
                includes a project aiming to achieve a 100% use of circular economy materials in
                underground infrastructure by 2040. Furthermore, requirements for phasing out
                SF6 components in order to limit carbon emissions could be adopted globally, but
                doing this without having developed adequate alternative solutions first would be
                a risk. Governments can encourage manufacturers to develop valid alternative
                solutions in a timely manner so that the industry can transition faster to non-SF6
                components globally.
               Implement cybersecurity measures with increasingly complex industrial and
                service supply chains in mind. Instances of malware being planted in the
                manufacturing process or in update programmes, known as software supply chain
                attacks, is on the rise. For example, malicious code or a backdoor embedded in
                critical hardware or software can cause massive security vulnerabilities, with
                consequences ranging from data breaches all the way to causing power outages.
                To mitigate these risks, it is important to take measures to ensure the reliability of
                the supply chain, such as developing guidelines for procurement protocols that
                take cybersecurity into account (e.g. the screening programme in the
                United States and Germany), and certification for the procurement of critical
                equipment (e.g. EDSA certification). Encouraging diversity in procurement
                sources for general-purpose products, such as semiconductors, smart meters and
                power conditioners, is effective at avoiding the risk of certain vulnerabilities or
                intervention by malicious entities.


Data streamlining, transparency,
digitalisation and observability are no-regrets
enablers
           Digital technologies can help resolve current operational challenges, supporting
           the integration of VRE and distributed energy resources, and reduce investment
           costs by optimising system efficiency. Fully leveraging the benefits of digitalisation
           constitutes a significant evolution in the role of system operators as they need to
           develop new, sophisticated data-handling capabilities. Greater co-ordination will
           be needed between different stakeholders and their assets. This relies on data
           collection, streamlining and transparency for exchange and analysis.

           There are multitudes of measurement possibilities with sensors and meters that
           can be deployed to make grid operations more secure and efficient – from the
           consumer level, throughout grids, at power plants and in the environment beyond.
                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 119
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                       Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




           There is an equally large range of applications, including renewables forecasting,
           estimating unregistered distributed energy resource capacity, managing flexible
           demand in real time, and identifying the onset and cause of grid limit violations
           and failures to improve prevention and recovery measures.

           Digitalisation is typically a higher priority at the distribution level, in part because
           transmission grid digitalisation is largely more advanced, and in part because of
           the opportunities that new technologies present at the distribution level. Where
           development of distributed energy resources is taking place at a rapid pace, and
           advanced metering infrastructure and smart devices are prevalent, it is a priority
           to link them with the other systems and develop co-ordination mechanisms that
           tap into the value of flexibility and efficiency. Where digitalisation has not yet
           occurred in one or more of these areas, distributed energy resources and smart
           devices are currently the most accessible and fastest to develop. This means that
           system operators should be aware of the prevailing development trends and act
           to capture the available information by setting up data collection and management
           capabilities.

           In parallel, expansion of the grid and its growing digitalisation add to the risks from
           cyberthreats, and both proactive and reactive cybersecurity measures accordingly
           need increased attention. Cyberattacks on the grid start from intended system
           infiltration through malware and co-ordinated attacks, facilitated by technical
           vulnerabilities and the increased electrification of end uses. The many parts of grid
           infrastructure and grid-connected technologies with different lifetimes, paired with
           the continuous digitalisation of end uses, translate into multiple potential points of
           infiltration. Once successfully infiltrated, the impact of a cyberattack on the grid
           can result in physical damage and widespread service disruption, such as cascade
           tripping, voltage or frequency collapse, and loss of synchronisation. This means
           that holistic risk management is needed to counter existing and emerging threats,
           encompassing the actions to be taken by grid operators and the requirements grid-
           connected assets need to meet.

           Policy makers can take a number of actions to support no-regrets enablers,
           promote broader advancement of digitalisation, and ensure proper defence
           against cyberthreats throughout power grids:

               Ensure grid companies start collecting data and develop the tools and skills
                to navigate it. Grid companies in the past have not needed, and so typically do
                not have, the digital infrastructure, practices and skillsets required to deal with
                large, complex datasets that have become possible through digital technologies.
                Even where digitalisation progress is relatively limited, policy makers and
                regulators need to ensure that grid companies start to collect data as early as
                possible and build up the capabilities needed to leverage the data. This will be a
                critical foundation for the more advanced possibilities and can already begin in
                contexts with limited digitalisation progress.
                                                                                                          IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 120
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                         Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




               Prioritise streamlining and transparency alongside privacy protection in
                grid company data collection and storage as early as possible. In the absence
                of specific measures, data collection activities may be geared towards internal use
                and employ specialised solutions that may be inefficient and make scale-up and
                data sharing challenging. At the same time, some of the data collected will be
                sensitive and privacy and security need to be ensured. Oversight by energy
                regulators needs to be enhanced to ensure that data are collected, stored and
                used in a responsible, efficient and scalable manner. Data management standards
                and audits are needed to ensure ongoing compliance, penalties are in place for
                breaches of data privacy, and fair access by relevant market participants. In order
                to advance digitalisation more efficiently, the sharing of experiences in data
                collection and handling should be promoted so that standards for practices and
                technology types can be developed. Data sharing will be crucial to amass
                databases large and diverse enough to leverage the benefits of artificial
                intelligence and machine learning for predictive analytics. For data relating to
                cyberattacks and security breaches, data sharing is also critical but needs to
                account for the fact that these events are often classified. Focusing on industry
                dialogue and establishing anonymised information sharing frameworks between
                industry actors and the public sector can help improve reporting numbers to build
                a knowledge base. Legislative support by policy makers to incentivise anonymised
                reporting would help relieve remaining legal and reputational concerns.
               Ensure that policies and regulations for encouraging innovation promote
                digitalisation. Current policies and frameworks for enabling innovation are not
                always well suited to fostering the digitalisation of power grids. Within broader
                measures to encourage innovation, such as performance-based regulation and
                market-based mechanisms, policy makers should ensure the development and
                deployment of digital technologies and approaches are advancing appropriately.
                For example, the “smart grid indicator” in Europe is a good example of an initiative
                to measure how digitalisation is scaling up in all its dimensions. The Digitalisation
                Action Plan by the European Commission is a concrete example of a government
                communiqué to define the steps needed for digitalisation to progress.
               Consider targeted funding for digital solutions. At present, digital solutions are
                progressing at a sub-optimal pace in many power grids. Targeted funding to
                harness the benefits of digitalisation can therefore be efficient and cost-effective.
                A number of initiatives already recognise this – for example, of the EUR 584 billion
                (around USD 615 billion) of investment that the European Commission anticipates
                in the European electricity grid by 2030, almost 30% (EUR 170 billion, around
                USD 180 billion) is expected to be allocated to digitalisation. Similarly, in 2022
                Japan announced a funding programme of USD 155 billion that will include a
                focus on smart grids. In 2022 the United States announced the Grid Resilience
                Innovative Partnership (GRIP) Program, with a funding opportunity of
                USD 10.5 billion to support the upgrade of power grid reliability and resilience,
                dedicating USD 3 billion of grants to smart grid deployment. In EMDEs this boost
                needs to be further encouraged by policy makers, such as in India’s Revamped
                Distribution Sector Scheme (RDSS), which allocates about USD 40 billion to
                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 121
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                         Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




                support power distribution companies and improve distribution infrastructure, with
                the target to reach 250 million smart meters by FY 2025/2026.
               Enhance cyber security risk assessments, encompassing vulnerabilities in
                grid operators and grid-connected assets. With the growing reliance on an
                expanding and more digitalised grid, cyberattacks have become a greater
                concern, posing threats to their physical infrastructure, security and economic
                integrity. While the exact format of the next cyberthreat is difficult to predict, the
                grid and its connected entities are often unaware of malware infiltration and
                response possibilities. Gaps in effective legislative requirements to enforce cyber
                risk procedures are also hindering the grid’s cybersecurity. In the absence of
                enforced network code requirements, risk assessment practices by grid operators
                can map out weaknesses within a network and be combined with proactive
                measures to decrease the likelihood of cyberattacks. The EU Agency for the
                Cooperation of Energy Regulators (ACER) cybersecurity-specific network code
                proposal includes risk assessment for critical and high-risk entities within the
                European interconnected power g. It found the combination of bottom-up and top-
                down approaches effective in managing cyber risk scenarios covering operational
                reliability within cross-border electricity flows. Certifying these efforts through
                recognised methodologies, such as ISO/IEC on information security management
                (ISO/IEC 27001, 27005, 27019, followed by 31000), can help to determine internal
                cyber practices and demonstrate compliance with accepted practices. Following
                assessment and certification, system operators can for example set up multi-factor
                authentication, monitoring systems for unauthorised system behaviour,
                procedures for backing up data, or the ability to manually override compromised
                systems. Policy makers can additionally support the industry’s efforts by enforcing
                specific cybersecurity network codes for grid operators and its users, paving the
                way for a more secure grid within the expansion and digitalisation process.


A skilled grids workforce needs to be
cultivated
           A lack of skilled labour is commonly cited by the private sector as a major barrier
           to ramping up operations. Utilities and grid equipment manufacturers are no
           different. Firms will need to bring in new talent and reskill current employees to
           manage the expansion and upgrade of networks. The grid sector requires a
           greater share of highly skilled workers, with many occupations requiring
           substantial post-secondary schooling. The sector is increasingly requiring a high
           degree of digital skilling, as the number of digital devices and their sophistication
           grows. Bringing in new skillsets will need to be balanced against pressures to
           maintain cost efficiency, especially in regions with regulated utilities. Utilities in
           EMDEs still often employ a number of low-skilled workers and need to consider
           how increasing levels of automation could make these workers redundant.
                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 122
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                         Chapter 4: Policy recommendations




           Priority actions for policy makers to expand and upskill the power grid workforce
           are:

               Work with educational institutions to add the necessary digital skills to the
                curriculum. Many of the certification programmes for electricians, tradespeople,
                engineers and system operators do not cover key digital skills in depth. Industry
                can work with educators to incorporate these new elements into curricula, and
                work with authorities to introduce new requirements into existing certifications
                where needed. Pruning antiquated elements can help build a pipeline of
                appropriately skilled workers, while rigorous on-the-job training programmes
                remain important.
               Introduce apprenticeships, scholarships and incentive schemes to build a
                pipeline of new talent. The number of skilled electricians, tradespeople and other
                blue-collar positions will need to increase the most when upgrading and building
                new grid infrastructure – and all these occupations are facing shortages in many
                parts of the world. The right incentives and programmes can help draw young
                people into these occupations. Many workers, such as electricians, may have the
                majority of the skills needed, but need additional training in specific areas.
                Minimising the transaction costs for them to upskill and recertify can help quickly
                expand the eligible labour force for these positions.
               Support workforce capacity development across the entire field. It is not only
                grid operators that require professional and skilled workers, but the entire sector.
                Regulatory authorities, policymaking institutions, financial institutions and
                planning bodies all require workers that are skilled and versed in the topic of
                energy and power grids. Given its technical nature, special attention should be
                given to support the development of worker capabilities in these institutions.
               Manage the effects of increased automation on workers. Many regions have
                utility workers who may be made redundant by the shift to a more digital grid,
                especially those working as meter readers, customer service representatives and
                some tradespeople. Helping these workers access economy-wide reskilling
                programmes can help ease this transition. Additionally, governments can put in
                place incentives for large multinational suppliers to provide on-the-job training and
                employ local workers during the construction of these systems to create a
                domestic labour force with valuable knowhow, which can then work in other parts
                of the economy..
                                                                                                            IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 123
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                         Annex




Annex

Abbreviations and acronyms
3DEN                Digital Demand Driven Networks
AC                  alternating current
ACER                Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators
AI                  artificial intelligence
APAEC               ASEAN Plan of Action for Energy Cooperation
APG                 ASEAN Power Grid
APS                 Announced Pledges Scenario
ARERA               Italian Regulatory Authority for Energy, Networks and Environment
ASEAN               Association of Southeast Asian Nations
BOO                 build, own and operate
BOOT                build, own, operate and transfer
BOT                 build, operate and transfer
BTO                 build, transfer and operate
BPLE                Korean Basic Plan for Long-term Electricity Supply and Demand
CAGR                compound annual growth rate
CAPEX               capital expenditure
CBA                 cost benefit analysis
CBCA                Cross-Border Cost Allocation
CEA                 Central Electricity Authority
CRE                 Commission de régulation de l'énergie
CSG                 China Southern Grid
DC                  direct current
DG                  distributed generation
DER                 distributed energy resources
DERMS               distributed energy resources management system
DSO                 distribution system operators
ECOWAS              Economic Community of West African States
EDSA                Embedded Device Security Assurance
EGAT                Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
EMDEs               emerging market and developing economies
ENTSO-E             European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity
ESO                 Electricity System Operator
EU                  European Union
EV                  electric vehicle
FACTS               flexible AC transmission system
FERC                US Federal Regulatory Energy Commission
GIS                 geographic information systems
GOES                grain-oriented electrical steel
GRIP                Grid Resilience Innovative Partnership
                                                                                                IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 124
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                         Annex




GDP                 gross domestic product
GHG                 greenhouse gas
HTLS                high-temperature low-sag
HVAC                high-voltage alternating current
HVDC                high-voltage direct current
IEA                 International Energy Agency
IEC                 International Electrotechnical Commission
IPT                 independent power transmission
IRA                 Inflation Reduction Act of 2022
ISO                 independent system operators
ISP                 Australian Integrated System Plan
IT                  information technology
LCC                 line commutated converters
LDV                 light-duty vehicles
LiDAR               light detection and ranging
NEP                 Indian National Electricity Plan
NOES                non-oriented electrical steel
NRA                 national regulatory authority
NZE                 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario
OCCTO               Organization for Cross-regional Coordination of Transmission Operators
OFGEM               Office of Gas and Electricity Market
OFTO                offshore transmission network owner
OPEX                operational expenditure
PAR/PEL             Brazilian Medium-Term National Grid Operation Plan
PCI                 projects of common interest
PDE                 Brazilian Ten-Year Energy Expansion Plan
PET                 Brazilian Transmission Expansion Programme
PELP                Brazilian Long-Term Expansion Plan
PDP                 power development plan
POTEE               Electric Power Transmission Concession Plan
PPP                 public-private partnership
PV                  photovoltaics
RAB                 regulated asset base
RDSS                Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme
REZ                 renewable energy zones
RTE                 Réseau de Transport d'Électricité
RUPTL               Indonesian National Electricity Supply Business Plan
SAIDI               System Average Interruption Duration Index
SCADA               supervisory control and data acquisition
SGCC                State Grid Corporation of China
SIEPAC              Central American Electrical Interconnection System
SOE                 state-owned enterprises
SPU                 spark prevention unit
STATCOM             static synchronous compensators
SVC                 static VAR compensators
                                                                                                IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 125
Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions                                      Annex




T&D                 transmission and distribution
TEN-E               Trans-European Networks for Energy
TOTEX               total expenditure
TSO                 transmission system operators
TYNDP               European Ten-Year Network Development Plan
UHV                 ultra-high-voltage
US                  United States
VAR                 volt-ampere reactive
VPN                 virtual private network
VRE                 variable renewable energy
VSC                 voltage source converters
WAMS                wide area management system



Glossary
AUD                 Australian dollar
BRL                 Brazilian Real. Exchange rate: 1 BRL = EUR 0.20 = USD 0.19
                    (2022 average)
C-km                circuit kilometres
CNY                 Chinese Yuan. Exchange rate: 1 CNY = EUR 0.16 = USD 0.15
                    (2022 average)
CO2                 carbon dioxide
EJ                  exajoules
EUR                 Euros. Exchange rate: 1 EUR = USD 1.05 (2022 average)
Gt                  gigatonne
Gt CO2              gigatonne of carbon dioxide
GBP                 British Pound Sterling. Exchange rate: 1 GBP = EUR 1.30 = USD 1.23
                    (2022 average)
GW                  gigawatt
GW-mi               gigawatt-miles
GWh                 gigawatt hour
Hz                  Hertz
kg                  kilogramme
kg/MW/km            kilogrammes per megawatt per kilometre
km                  kilometre
kV                  kilovolt
Mt                  million tonnes
MVA                 megavolt ampere
MW                  megawatt
MWh                 megawatt hour
SF6                 sulfur hexafluoride
TW                  terawatt
TWh                 terawatt hour
USD                 United States Dollars
                                                                                             IEA. CC BY 4.0.




                                                  PAGE | 126
International Energy Agency (IEA).

This work reflects the views of the IEA Secretariat but does not
necessarily reflect those of the IEA’s individual member countries or of
any particular funder or collaborator. The work does not constitute
professional advice on any specific issue or situation. The IEA makes no
representation or warranty, express or implied, in respect of the work’s
contents (including its completeness or accuracy) and shall not be
responsible for any use of, or reliance on, the work.




Subject to the IEA’s Notice for CC-licenced Content, this work is
licenced under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
Licence.


This document and any map included herein are without prejudice to the
status of or sovereignty over any territory, to the delimitation of
international frontiers and boundaries and to the name of any territory,
city or area.

Unless otherwise indicated, all material presented in figures and tables is
derived from IEA data and analysis.

IEA Publications
International Energy Agency
Website: www.iea.org
Contact information: www.iea.org/contact

Typeset in France by IEA - October 2023
Cover design: IEA
Photo credits: © Shutterstock

Revised version, September 2023
Information notice found at: www.iea.org/corrections
