See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/284503626
A design science research methodology for information systems
research
Article  in  Journal of Management Information Systems · January 2007
CITATIONS
5,276
READS
103,183
4 authors, including:
Ken Peffers
University of Nevada, Las Vegas
54 PUBLICATIONS   13,512 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Tuure Tuunanen
University of Jyväskylä
202 PUBLICATIONS   13,684 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Marcus A. Rothenberger
University of Nevada, Las Vegas
31 PUBLICATIONS   11,319 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
All content following this page was uploaded by Tuure Tuunanen on 20 October 2021.
The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.
\nJournal of Management Information Systems / Winter 2007–8, Vol. 24, No. 3, pp. 45–77. 
© 2008 M.E. Sharpe, Inc. 
0742–1222 / 2008 $9.50 + 0.00. 
DOI 10.2753/MIS0742-1222240302
A Design Science Research Methodology 
for Information Systems Research
KEN PEFFERS, TUURE TUUNANEN, MARCUS A. ROTHENBERGER, 
AND SAMIR CHATTERJEE
KEN PEFFERS is an Associate Professor and Chair of the Management Information 
Systems Department at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. He earned his Ph.D. 
in Management Information Systems from Purdue University. His current research 
focuses on making the right IS investments for the ﬁrm, on IS planning, and on require-
ments determination for new information systems. His research articles have been 
published in journals such as Communications of the ACM, Journal of Management 
Information Systems, Information Systems Research, IEEE Transactions on Engineer-
ing Management, Organization Science, Journal of Information Technology Theory 
and Application, and Information & Management.
TUURE TUUNANEN is a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Information Systems and 
Operations Management at the University of Auckland. He holds a D.Sc. (Econ) from 
the Helsinki School of Economics. His current research interests lie in the areas of 
IS development methods and processes, requirements engineering, risk management, 
and convergence of IS and marketing disciplines, speciﬁcally in design of interactive 
consumer services and products. His research has been published in Information & 
Management, Journal of Database Management, Journal of Information Technology 
Theory and Application, Journal of Management Information Systems, and Technology 
Analysis and Strategic Management. In addition, his work has appeared in a number 
of conference proceedings within his research interest areas such as European Con-
ference on Information Systems, Design Science Research in Information Systems 
and Technology, Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Mobility 
Roundtable and Requirements Engineering Conference. Dr. Tuunanen is a member 
of the Association of Computing Machinery, the Association of Information Systems, 
and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
MARCUS A. ROTHENBERGER is an Associate Professor of Management Information Sys-
tems at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. He holds a Ph.D. in Information Systems 
from Arizona State University. Dr. Rothenberger’s work includes theory testing, theory 
development, and design science research in the areas of software process improve-
ment, software reusability, performance measurement, and the adoption of enterprise 
resource planning systems. His work has appeared in major academic journals, such as 
Decision Sciences, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, Communications of 
the ACM, and Information & Management. Dr. Rothenberger is regularly involved in 
major academic conferences, including the International Conference on Information 
Systems and the Americas Conference on Information Systems. He is a member of the 
Association for Information Systems and the Decision Sciences Institute.
\n46    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
SAMIR CHATTERJEE is a Professor in the School of Information Systems & Technol-
ogy and Founding Director of the Network Convergence Laboratory at Claremont 
Graduate University, California. He holds a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the 
University of Central Florida. He is widely recognized as an expert in the areas of 
next-generation networking, voice- and video-over Internet protocol, and network 
security. His current research is on designing IT solutions to problems in health care 
and collaboration. He has published over 75 articles in respected scholarly journals 
and refereed conferences including IEEE Network, IEEE Journal on Selected Areas 
in Communications, Communications of the ACM, Computer Networks, International 
Journal of Healthcare Technology & Management, Telemedicine & e-Health Journal, 
Information Systems Frontiers, Computer Communication, IEEE IT Professional, 
ACM Computer Communication Review, Communications of AIS, and Journal of In-
ternet Technology, among others. He is the principal investigator on several National 
Science Foundation (NSF) grants and has received funding from numerous private 
corporations for his research. He is on the editorial board of International Journal of 
Business Data Communications & Networking. He is the founding Program Chair 
for the First International Design Science Conference (DESRIST 2006) and General 
Chair for DESRIST 2008. He has been an entrepreneur and successfully cofounded 
a startup company, VoiceCore Technologies, Inc., in 2000.
ABSTRACT: The paper motivates, presents, demonstrates in use, and evaluates a meth-
odology for conducting design science (DS) research in information systems (IS). DS 
is of importance in a discipline oriented to the creation of successful artifacts. Several 
researchers have pioneered DS research in IS, yet over the past 15 years, little DS 
research has been done within the discipline. The lack of a methodology to serve as a 
commonly accepted framework for DS research and of a template for its presentation 
may have contributed to its slow adoption. The design science research methodology 
(DSRM) presented here incorporates principles, practices, and procedures required to 
carry out such research and meets three objectives: it is consistent with prior literature, 
it provides a nominal process model for doing DS research, and it provides a mental 
model for presenting and evaluating DS research in IS. The DS process includes six 
steps: problem identiﬁcation and motivation, deﬁnition of the objectives for a solu-
tion, design and development, demonstration, evaluation, and communication. We 
demonstrate and evaluate the methodology by presenting four case studies in terms 
of the DSRM, including cases that present the design of a database to support health 
assessment methods, a software reuse measure, an Internet video telephony applica-
tion, and an IS planning method. The designed methodology effectively satisﬁes the 
three objectives and has the potential to help aid the acceptance of DS research in 
the IS discipline.
KEY WORDS AND PHRASES: case study, design science, design science research, design 
theory, mental model, methodology, process model.
INFORMATION SYSTEMS (IS) IS AN APPLIED RESEARCH discipline, in the sense that we fre-
quently apply theory from other disciplines, such as economics, computer science, and 
the social sciences, to solve problems at the intersection of information technology 
(IT) and organizations. However, the dominant research paradigms that we use to 
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     47
produce and publish research for our most respected research outlets largely continue 
to be those of traditional descriptive research borrowed from the social and natural 
sciences. We recently accepted the use of interpretive research paradigms, but the 
resulting research output is still mostly explanatory and, it could be argued, not often 
applicable to the solution of problems encountered in research and practice. While 
design, the act of creating an explicitly applicable solution to a problem, is an accepted 
research paradigm in other disciplines, such as engineering, it has been employed 
in just a small minority of research papers published in our best journals to produce 
artifacts that are applicable to research or practice.
Without a strong component that produces explicitly applicable research solutions, 
IS research faces the potential of losing inﬂuence over research streams for which 
such applicability is an important value. For example, we wonder whether the prefer-
ence for theory building and testing research may help to explain why the center of 
gravity for research in systems analysis and design—arguably, IS research’s raison 
d’être—appears to have moved to engineering, dominated by research streams such 
as requirements engineering and software engineering. Engineering disciplines accept 
design as a valid and valuable research methodology because the engineering research 
culture places explicit value on incrementally effective applicable problem solutions. 
Given the explicitly applied character of IS practice and the implicitly applied character 
of IS research, as part of the business academe, we should do so as well.
In recent years, several researchers succeeded in bringing design research into the 
IS research community, successfully making the case for the validity and value of 
design science (DS) as an IS research paradigm [20, 31, 55] and actually integrating 
design as a major component of research [33]. In spite of these successful efforts to 
deﬁne DS as a legitimate research paradigm, DS research has been slow to diffuse 
into the mainstream of IS research in the past 15 years [56] and much of it has been 
published in engineering journals.
An accepted common framework is necessary for DS research in IS and a mental 
model [18, 45, 54] or template for readers and reviewers to recognize and evaluate 
the results of such research. Every researcher trained in the culture of social science 
research has mental models for empirical and theory building research that allow 
the researcher to recognize and evaluate such work, and perhaps one for interpretive 
research as well. Even if all of these mental models are not exactly the same, they 
provide contexts in which researchers can understand and evaluate the work of others. 
For example, if a researcher reviewed an empirical paper that failed to describe how 
the data were gathered, he or she would probably always regard that as an omission 
that required notice and correction. Because DS research is not part of the dominant 
IS research culture, no such commonly understood mental model exists. Without one, 
it may be difﬁcult for researchers to evaluate it or even to distinguish it from practice 
activities, such as consulting.
A number of researchers, both in and outside of the IS discipline, have sought to 
provide some guidance to deﬁne DS research [20]. Work in engineering [2, 14, 16, 38], 
computer science [37, 46], and IS [1, 10, 20, 31, 33, 40, 55, 56] has sought to collect 
and disseminate the appropriate reference literature [51]; characterize its purposes; 
\n48    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
differentiate it from theory building and testing research, in particular, and from other 
research paradigms; explicate its essential elements; and claim its legitimacy. However, 
so far this literature has not explicitly focused on the development of a methodology 
for carrying out DS research and presenting it.
We propose and develop a design science research methodology (DSRM) for the 
production and presentation of DS research in IS. This effort contributes to IS research 
by providing a commonly accepted framework for successfully carrying out DS re-
search and a mental model for its presentation. It may also help with the recognition 
and legitimization of DS research and its objectives, processes, and outputs, and it 
should help researchers to present research with reference to a commonly understood 
framework, rather than justifying the research paradigm on an ad hoc basis with each 
new paper.
Problem Identiﬁcation: Completing a DSRM for IS Research
WHEN IS RESEARCHERS STARTED TO DEVELOP an interest in DS research in the early 1990s, 
there already was agreement in prior research about the basic difference between DS 
and other paradigms, such as theory building and testing, and interpretive research: 
“Whereas natural sciences and social sciences try to understand reality, design science 
attempts to create things that serve human purposes” [43, p. 55]. Three papers from 
the early 1990s [31, 33, 55] introduced DS research to the IS community. Nunamaker 
et al. [33] advocated the integration of system development into the research process, 
by proposing a multimethodological approach that would include theory building, 
systems development, experimentation, and observations. Walls et al. [55] deﬁned 
IS design theory as a class of research that would stand as an equal with traditional 
social science–based theory building and testing. March and Smith [31] pointed out 
that design research could contribute to the applicability of IS research by facilitating 
its application to better address the kinds of problems faced by IS practitioners.
Once this literature provided a conceptual and paradigmatic basis for DS research, 
Walls et al. [56] expected its widespread adoption within IS, believing that this would 
lead to IS research having more impact on practice through close ties between DS 
research and practical applications. Despite the precedents of these early papers, Walls 
et al. [56] observed that this rush to publish DS research did not occur and that the DS 
research paradigm had only occasionally been used explicitly in the past ten years. 
Given that many papers in reference disciplines, such as engineering and computer 
science, use DS as a research approach and, in doing so, realize beneﬁts from the 
practical applicability of research outcomes (e.g., [3, 19, 27, 28, 29]), it would seem 
reasonable that it could also happen in IS.
Toward a DSRM
Some engineering literature (e.g., [14]) has pointed to a need for a common DSRM. 
Archer’s [2] methodology focuses on one kind of DS research, which resulted in 
building system instantiations as the research outcome, or “the purposeful seeking 
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     49
of a solution” [32, p. 14] to a problem formulated from those desires [32]. Archer [2] 
believed that design could be codiﬁed, even the creative part of it. Archer’s industrial 
engineering research outcomes reﬂect his views on research methodology. His work 
included purpose-oriented designs for hospital beds and for mechanisms that prevented 
ﬁre doors from being propped open. Through this work, he deﬁned six steps of DS 
research: programming (to establish project objectives), data collection and analysis, 
synthesis of the objectives and analysis results, development (to produce better design 
proposals), prototyping, and documentation (to communicate the results). With these 
steps, he asserted that designers can approach design problems “systematically,” by 
looking at functional-level problems such as goals, requirements, and so on, and by 
progressing toward more speciﬁc solutions [22].
A methodology is “a system of principles, practices, and procedures applied to a 
speciﬁc branch of knowledge” [13]. Such a methodology might help IS researchers 
to produce and present high-quality DS research in IS that is accepted as valuable, 
rigorous, and publishable in IS research outlets. For DS research, a methodology would 
include three elements: conceptual principles to deﬁne what is meant by DS research, 
practice rules, and a process for carrying out and presenting the research.
Principles: DS Research Deﬁned
With just a decade and a half of history, DS research in IS may still be evolving; 
however, we now have a reasonably sound idea about what it is. “Design science . . . 
creates and evaluates IT artifacts intended to solve identiﬁed organizational problems” 
[20, p. 77]. It involves a rigorous process to design artifacts to solve observed prob-
lems, to make research contributions, to evaluate the designs, and to communicate the 
results to appropriate audiences [20]. Such artifacts may include constructs, models, 
methods, and instantiations [20]. They may also include social innovations [52] or 
new properties of technical, social, or informational resources [24]; in short, this 
deﬁnition includes any designed object with an embedded solution to an understood 
research problem.
Practice Rules for DS Research
Hevner et al. [20] provided us with practice rules for conducting DS research in the 
IS discipline in the form of seven guidelines that describe characteristics of well 
carried out research. The most important of these is that the research must produce 
an “artifact created to address a problem” [20, p. 82]. Further, the artifact should be 
relevant to the solution of a “heretofore unsolved and important business problem” 
[20, p. 84]. Its “utility, quality, and efﬁcacy” [20, p. 85] must be rigorously evaluated. 
The research should represent a veriﬁable contribution and rigor must be applied in 
both the development of the artifact and its evaluation. The development of the artifact 
should be a search process that draws from existing theories and knowledge to come 
up with a solution to a deﬁned problem. Finally, the research must be effectively 
communicated to appropriate audiences [20].
\n50    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
Procedures: A Process Model and Mental Model for  
Research Outputs
Prior research has introduced principles that deﬁne what DS research is [20] and 
what goals it should pursue [16, 20], as well as practice rules that provide guidance 
for conducting [2, 16, 20, 38] and justifying it [1, 33, 55]. Nevertheless, principles 
and practice rules are only two out of the three characteristics of a methodology [13]. 
The missing part is a procedure that provides a generally accepted process for car-
rying it out.
Hitherto, IS researchers have not focused on the development of a consensus process 
and mental model for DS research, such as that called for in engineering literature 
[16, 38] and required by the IS research discipline. This lack of a consensus-based DS 
research process model may help to explain why, despite many citations, the message 
of DS research has not resulted in more research in IS that makes explicit use of the 
paradigm [56]. Instead, much of the DS research published by IS researchers has been 
published in engineering journals, where DS behaviors are more the norm. Some of 
that published in IS journals has required ad hoc arguments to support its validity [5, 
9, 34, 36, 42]. For example, in Peffers and Tuunanen [34], the authors use information 
theory to justify the use of an IS planning method, which, in reality, was a designed 
method. In Peffers et al. [36], the researchers justify their work as a practical extension 
of another methodology, rather than making explicit design claims. In Rothenberger 
and Hershauer [42], the authors describe the development of a software reuse measure 
in the context of a ﬁeld study and evaluate the artifact using one project of the ﬁeld 
company that is treated as a case study.
Deﬁning Objectives of a Solution: Process and Mental Models 
Consistent with Prior Research
OUR OVERALL OBJECTIVE FOR THE PAPER IS THE DEVELOPMENT of a methodology for DS 
research in IS. We do this by introducing a DS process model, which, together with 
prior research on DS, provides DS research with a complete methodology. The design 
of this conceptual process will seek to meet three objectives: it will (1) provide a 
nominal process for the conduct of DS research, (2) build upon prior literature about 
DS in IS and reference disciplines, and (3) provide researchers with a mental model 
or template for a structure for research outputs.
A Nominal Process
Such a process could accomplish two things for DS research in IS. It would help provide 
a road map for researchers who want to use design as a research mechanism for IS 
research. Such a process would not be the only way that DS research could be done, but 
it would suggest a good way to do it. It could also help researchers by legitimizing such 
research, just as researchers understand the essential elements of empirical IS research 
and accept research that is well done using understood and accepted processes.
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     51
Building on Prior Research
There is a substantial body of research, both within the IS literature and in reference 
disciplines, that provides us with a tradition to support such a process. A process for 
DS research should build on this work while integrating its principles into a compre-
hensive methodology for conducting DS research. There are two sets of applicable 
literature. One revolves around issues of actually doing academic design work—that 
is, design research. The second set addresses the meta level of conducting research 
at a higher level of abstraction—research about design research. Below, we discuss 
the differences and how both contribute to meeting this objective.
The design research literature contains a large number of references to processes 
that are described incidentally to the production of research-based designs. Many of 
these descriptions are speciﬁc to research contexts and to the practical needs of design 
practitioners. In engineering, for example, there have been a number of design research 
efforts in which the focus has been on processes targeting the production of artifacts 
[53]. Evbuonwan et al. [15] mention 14 such process models. Many, such as Cooper’s 
StageGate [11, 12], are clearly intended as design or development methodologies, rather 
than research methodologies or processes, such as the one we are seeking to develop 
for DS research in IS. Likewise, in computer science, Maguire’s [30] human-centered 
design cycle addresses the speciﬁc problems of requirements engineering methods 
for different situations and, in IS, Hickey and Davis [21] addressed the issue from 
a functional view. Iivari et al. [23] considered the differences between IS develop-
ment methods and methodologies and the needs that arise for method development. 
Processes described in this literature are of interest, but, because they vary widely 
and are generally context speciﬁc, they cannot necessarily be directly applied to the 
development of a general process for DS research.
The research about design research literature is rich with ideas about how to conduct 
research. This literature, while not providing process models that can be applied directly 
to the problem of DS research, provides concepts from which we can infer processes. 
In IS, Nunamaker et al. [33] provided an abstract model connecting aspects of design 
research, but leave the actual process for conducting it to the researcher’s inference. 
Walls et al.’s [55, 56] IS design theory provides theory at a high level of abstraction 
from which we can infer a process. Hevner et al.’s [20] and March and Smith’s [31] 
guidelines for DS research inﬂuence methodological choices within the DS research 
process. In the computer science domain, Preston and Mehandjiev [37] and Takeda 
et al. [46] proposed a “design cycle” for intelligent design systems.
In engineering, Archer [2] and Eekels and Roozenburg [14] presented design process 
models that could be incorporated into a consensus process. Adams and Courtney 
[1] proposed an extension of Nunamaker et al.’s [33] system development research 
methodology via inclusion of action research or grounded theory approach as ways 
to conduct research. Cole et al. [10] and Rossi and Sein [40] proposed basic steps to 
integrate DS research and action research. So far, no complete, generalizable process 
model exists for DS research in IS; however, if we develop such a process model, it 
should build upon the strengths of these prior efforts.
\n52    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
A Mental Model
The ﬁnal objective of a DSRM process is to provide a mental model for the character-
istics of research outputs. A mental model is a “small-scale [model] of reality . . . [that] 
can be constructed from perception, imagination, or the comprehension of discourse. 
[Mental models] are akin to architects’ models or to physicists’ diagrams in that their 
structure is analogous to the structure of the situation that they represent, unlike, say, 
the structure of logical forms used in formal rule theories” [25]. Outcomes from DS 
research are clearly expected to differ from those of theory testing or interpretative 
research. A process model should provide us with some guidance, as reviewers, edi-
tors, and consumers, about what to expect from DS research outputs. March and Smith 
[31] contributed to this expectation with their ideas about research outputs. Hevner et 
al. [20] further elaborated on this expectation by describing DS research’s essential 
elements. A mental model for the conduct and presentation of DS research will help 
researchers to conduct it effectively. 
Design: Development of the Methodology
DEVELOPMENT OF THE METHODOLOGY REQUIRED the design of a DSRM process. To ac-
complish this, we looked to inﬂuential prior research and current thought to determine 
the appropriate elements, seeking to build upon what researchers said in key prior 
literature about what DS researchers did or should do. Our aim here was to design 
a methodology that would serve as a commonly accepted framework for carrying 
out research based on DS research principles outlined above. Rather than focusing 
on nuanced differences in views about DS among various researchers, we sought to 
use a consensus-building approach to produce the design. Consensus building was 
important to ensure that we based the DSRM on well-accepted elements.
A number of researchers in IS and other disciplines have contributed ideas for 
process elements. Table 1 presents process elements, stated or implied, from seven 
representative papers and presentations and our synthesis: the components of the 
DSRM process. The authors agree substantially on common elements. The result of 
our synthesis is a process model consisting of six activities in a nominal sequence, 
which we justify and describe here and graphically in Figure 1.
All seven papers include some component in the initial stages of research to deﬁne a 
research problem. Nunamaker et al. [33] and Walls et al. [55] emphasized theoretical 
bases, whereas engineering researchers [2, 14] focused more on applied problems. 
Takeda et al. [46] suggested the need for problem enumeration, whereas Rossi and 
Sein [40] advocated need identiﬁcation. Hevner et al. [20] asserted that DS research 
should address important and relevant problems.
Activity 1: Problem identiﬁcation and motivation. Deﬁne the speciﬁc research 
problem and justify the value of a solution. Because the problem deﬁnition will 
be used to develop an artifact that can effectively provide a solution, it may be 
useful to atomize the problem conceptually so that the solution can capture its 
complexity. Justifying the value of a solution accomplishes two things: it moti-
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     53
Table 1. Design and DS Process Elements from IS and Other Disciplines and Synthesis Elements for a DSRM in IS
  
 
 
 
 
 
Cole 
  
 
 
 
 
 
et al. [10]
Common design  
 
Takeda 
Eekels and 
Nunamaker 
Walls 
Rossi and 
Hevner
process elements 
Archer [2]  
et al. [46] 
Roozenburg [14] 
et al. [33] 
et al. [55] 
Sein [40]  
et al. [20]
Problem identiﬁcation  
Programming, 
Problem 
Analysis 
Construct a 
Meta- 
Identify a 
Important
 
and motivation 
data collection 
enumeration 
 
conceptual 
requirements, 
need 
and relevant
 
 
 
 
 
framework 
kernel 
 
problems
 
 
 
 
 
 
theories
Objectives of a 
 
 
Requirements 
 
 
 
Implicit in 
 
solution 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“relevance”
Design and  
Analysis, 
Suggestion, 
Synthesis, 
Develop a 
Design 
Build 
Iterative
 
development 
synthesis,  
development 
tentative 
system 
method, 
 
search
 
 
development 
 
design 
architecture, 
meta design 
 
process,
 
 
 
 
proposals 
analyze and  
 
 
artifact
 
 
 
 
 
design the 
 
 
 
 
 
system,
 
 
 
 
 
build the 
 
 
 
 
 
system 
Demonstration 
 
 
Simulation,  
Experiment,
 
 
 
 
conditional  
observe, and
 
 
 
 
prediction 
evaluate the 
 
 
 
 
 
system
Evaluation 
 
Conﬁrmatory  
Evaluation, 
 
Testable 
Evaluate 
Evaluate
 
 
 
evaluation 
decision,  
 
design
 
 
 
 
deﬁnite design 
 
process/product 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypotheses
Communication 
Communication 
 
 
 
 
 
Communication
\n54    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
Figure 1. DSRM Process Model
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     55
vates the researcher and the audience of the research to pursue the solution and 
to accept the results and it helps to understand the reasoning associated with the 
researcher’s understanding of the problem. Resources required for this activity in-
clude knowledge of the state of the problem and the importance of its solution.
Some of the researchers explicitly incorporate efforts to transform the problem into 
system objectives, also called metarequirements [55] or requirements [14], whereas 
for the others, these efforts are implicit as part of programming and data collection 
[2] or implicit in the search for a relevant and important problem. Identiﬁed problems 
do not necessarily translate directly into objectives for the artifact because the pro-
cess of design is necessarily one of partial and incremental solutions. Consequently, 
after the problem is identiﬁed, there remains the step of determining the performance 
objectives for a solution.
Activity 2: Deﬁne the objectives for a solution. Infer the objectives of a solution 
from the problem deﬁnition and knowledge of what is possible and feasible. The 
objectives can be quantitative, such as terms in which a desirable solution would 
be better than current ones, or qualitative, such as a description of how a new 
artifact is expected to support solutions to problems not hitherto addressed. The 
objectives should be inferred rationally from the problem speciﬁcation. Resources 
required for this include knowledge of the state of problems and current solutions, 
if any, and their efﬁcacy.
All of the researchers focus on the core of DS across disciplines—design and devel-
opment. In some of the research (e.g., [14, 33]), the design and development activities 
are further subdivided into more discrete activities whereas other researchers focus 
more on the nature of the iterative search process [20].
Activity 3: Design and development. Create the artifact. Such artifacts are poten-
tially constructs, models, methods, or instantiations (each deﬁned broadly) [20] or 
“new properties of technical, social, and/or informational resources” [24, p. 49]. 
Conceptually, a design research artifact can be any designed object in which a 
research contribution is embedded in the design. This activity includes determining 
the artifact’s desired functionality and its architecture and then creating the actual 
artifact. Resources required for moving from objectives to design and development 
include knowledge of theory that can be brought to bear in a solution.
Next, the solutions vary from a single act of demonstration [55] to prove that the idea 
works, to a more formal evaluation [14, 20, 33, 40, 51] of the developed artifact. Eekels 
and Roozenburg [14] and Nunamaker et al. [33] included both of these phases.
Activity 4: Demonstration. Demonstrate the use of the artifact to solve one or 
more instances of the problem. This could involve its use in experimentation, 
simulation, case study, proof, or other appropriate activity. Resources required 
for the demonstration include effective knowledge of how to use the artifact to 
solve the problem.
\n56    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
Activity 5: Evaluation. Observe and measure how well the artifact supports a 
solution to the problem. This activity involves comparing the objectives of a 
solution to actual observed results from use of the artifact in the demonstration. 
It requires knowledge of relevant metrics and analysis techniques. Depending 
on the nature of the problem venue and the artifact, evaluation could take many 
forms. It could include items such as a comparison of the artifact’s functionality 
with the solution objectives from activity 2, objective quantitative performance 
measures such as budgets or items produced, the results of satisfaction surveys, 
client feedback, or simulations. It could include quantiﬁable measures of system 
performance, such as response time or availability. Conceptually, such evaluation 
could include any appropriate empirical evidence or logical proof. At the end of 
this activity the researchers can decide whether to iterate back to activity 3 to try 
to improve the effectiveness of the artifact or to continue on to communication 
and leave further improvement to subsequent projects. The nature of the research 
venue may dictate whether such iteration is feasible or not.
Finally, Archer [2] and Hevner et al. [20] proposed the need for communication to 
diffuse the resulting knowledge.
Activity 6. Communication. Communicate the problem and its importance, the 
artifact, its utility and novelty, the rigor of its design, and its effectiveness to 
researchers and other relevant audiences such as practicing professionals, when 
appropriate. In scholarly research publications, researchers might use the structure 
of this process to structure the paper, just as the nominal structure of an empiri-
cal research process (problem deﬁnition, literature review, hypothesis develop-
ment, data collection, analysis, results, discussion, and conclusion) is a common 
structure for empirical research papers. Communication requires knowledge of 
the disciplinary culture.
This process is structured in a nominally sequential order; however, there is no 
expectation that researchers would always proceed in sequential order from activity 
1 through activity 6. In reality, they may actually start at almost any step and move 
outward. A problem-centered approach is the basis of the nominal sequence, starting 
with activity 1. Researchers might proceed in this sequence if the idea for the research 
resulted from observation of the problem or from suggested future research in a paper 
from a prior project. An objective-centered solution, starting with activity 2, could 
be triggered by an industry or research need that can be addressed by developing an 
artifact. A design- and development-centered approach would start with activity 3. It 
would result from the existence of an artifact that has not yet been formally thought 
through as a solution for the explicit problem domain in which it will be used. Such 
an artifact might have come from another research domain, it might have already 
been used to solve a different problem, or it might have appeared as an analogical 
idea. Finally, a client-/context-initiated solution may be based on observing a practical 
solution that worked; it starts with activity 4, resulting in a DS solution if researchers 
work backward to apply rigor to the process retroactively. This could be the by-product 
of a consulting experience.
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     57
Demonstration in Four Case Studies
TO DEMONSTRATE THE USE OF THE DSRM, WE APPLY it retroactively to four already published 
IS research projects. In the ﬁrst, researchers design and develop a data warehousing 
solution to support data gathering and analysis necessary for public health policy 
[4, 5]. The second explicates the design of a software reuse measure that was used 
in subsequent case study research [41, 42]. The third reports on the design of an ap-
plication and middleware for the Internet2 environment that provides telephony and 
video functionalities [9, 17]. Finally, the fourth depicts the development of a method, 
critical success chains (CSC) [34, 36], for use in generating a portfolio of new ideas 
for mobile ﬁnancial services applications.
In each case, we show how the process of motivating, developing, designing, dem-
onstrating, evaluating, and communicating the artifact is consistent with the DSRM. 
In none of the cases were the publication outputs explicitly described and presented 
as using a DS research process, because a designed methodology had not been hith-
erto available. In the summaries that follow, we used the language of the DSRM to 
interpret the research processes actually used by the researchers to determine how 
well the DSRM ﬁts with the research processes used.
Case 1: The CATCH Data Warehouse for  
Health Status Assessments
The comprehensive assessment for tracking community health (CATCH) methods 
was published [44] and successfully used in multiple counties in the United States. 
The methodology requires data to be gathered from multiple sources, including 
hospitals, health agencies, health-care groups, and surveys. CATCH organizes over 
250 health-care indicators into 10 categories that represent a variety of health-care 
issues. The output of the CATCH methodology is a prioritized listing of community 
health-care challenges. In this work Berndt and colleagues [4, 5, 7] automated the 
use of CATCH by developing a data warehouse that implements the methodology. 
Figure 2 summarizes how the DSRM applies to the steps undertaken as part of this 
DS research effort [4, 5, 7].
Problem-Centered Approach
The lack of automated support made the data gathering for the CATCH methodology 
labor intensive and slow; thus, extended trend analyses were cost prohibitive for most 
communities. The need for a more efﬁcient automated data access for CATCH health 
assessments triggered the development of the CATCH data warehouse.
Problem Identiﬁcation and Motivation
The United States has the highest health-care spending of any nation in the world, both 
as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP) and per capita. Nevertheless, the 
United States does not rank among the countries with the healthiest populations. Thus, 
\n58    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
Figure 2. DSRM Process for the CATCH Project
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     59
there was a need to assess the country’s health status in order to assist communities 
to develop comprehensive health strategies, leading to better resource allocation for 
prevention and treatment. The formulation of such strategy had to be based on local 
health data. The availability and quality of health data was low, which is why health 
data rarely were the basis for decision making on health policies. Although CATCH 
was an available assessment method at the time, the labor intensity of nonautomated 
data gathering limited its adoption.
Objective of the Solution
The objective was to develop a data warehouse solution for the automated support 
of the CATCH methods that enables users to run cost-effective analyses. The major 
challenges included the diversity of the data sources, the diversity of target groups for 
which reports were generated, and the need to conform to the public policy formulation 
process. The data warehouse was to provide a rich environment that would enable an 
improvement of research capabilities on critical health-care issues with the long-term 
goal of centering the role of public health agencies around monitoring and improving 
the health status of the population using this technology.
Design and Development
The artifact is the data warehouse that supports and automates CATCH. The researchers 
drew from data warehousing research to develop the CATCH data warehouse with data 
arranged in a star schema. The design includes three levels of granularity: the report 
structures, aggregate dimensional structures, and ﬁne-grained and transaction-oriented 
dimensional structures. Staging and quality assurance methods were established to 
enable a successful use of the data warehouse and performance issues were addressed. 
The design and related methods have been and continue to be reﬁned based on emerg-
ing performance needs.
Demonstration
After developing proof-of-concept-level prototypes, the artifact was extensively adapted 
to production use by user organizations. The researchers point to the application of the 
CATCH data warehouse in multiple counties and provide screenshots of several output 
screens in their articles. In related research, it was also demonstrated that the CATCH 
data warehouse could be used to conduct bioterrorism surveillance: a similar data 
warehouse approach was used in a demonstration surveillance system in Florida.
Evaluation
The original CATCH methods have been used and reﬁned for more than 10 years in 
more than 20 U.S. counties. The researchers implemented the CATCH data warehouse 
as a fully functional version in Florida’s Miami-Dade County. The veriﬁcation of the 
accuracy of the automated generation of the report through a comprehensive manual 
\n60    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
check identiﬁed only minor problems in use. The data warehouse was found to be 
ﬂexible and effective in this ﬁeld application.
Communication
Manuscripts relating to the CATCH data warehouse have been published in academic 
journals, academic conference proceedings, and professional outlets. The development 
of the health-care data warehouse was presented in Decision Support Systems [5] and 
Upgrade, a professional online magazine [4]. The challenges of quality assurance in 
the CATCH data warehouse were discussed in IEEE Computer [7]. Further, the use 
of data warehousing technology and CATCH in the context of bioterrorism has been 
explored in proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Intelligence and 
Security Informatics [6, 8]. In addition, this research effort received attention from 
various newspapers in Florida.
Contribution
The CATCH data warehouse research resulted in architecture and applications. This 
artifact was used effectively to collect data in a consistent and automated fashion 
from disparate local health-care organizations, which, among themselves, had no 
consistent IS or data collection infrastructure. The immediate contribution of this 
research to public health policy was the ability to collect data that could be effectively 
used to formulate such policy within Florida, where it was implemented. In a broader 
context, the artifact could serve as a template for the implementation of such systems 
elsewhere. Furthermore, the architecture and applications could serve as a model for 
the development of similar systems, such as one that was developed for bioterrorism 
surveillance, to serve other public or business needs.
Case 2: A Software Reuse Measure Developed at  
MBA Technologies
MBA Technologies was a medium-sized Phoenix-based software developer that spe-
cialized in the development of business process and accounting systems; the company 
obtained high reuse in its software development by leveraging of existing compo-
nents that were mapped to an enterprise-level model. The model and its components 
represented generic business solutions that could be customized to a speciﬁc set of 
requirements. The objective of this work by Rothenberger and Hershauer [42] was 
to develop a generic reuse metric for such an enterprise-level model-based software 
development environment and to apply the generic measure to the speciﬁcs of the 
organization. Figure 3 provides a summary of the research steps discussed below.
Objective-Centered Solution
In spring 1997, Rothenberger and Hershauer [42] wanted to conduct an in-depth case 
study on the reuse efforts at MBA Technologies that required the assessment of the 
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     61
Figure 3. DSRM Process for the MBA Technologies Study
\n62    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
reuse rates the company obtained in its projects. Existing reuse measures available in 
the IS and computer science literatures were not suitable to assess the reuse rate in the 
enterprise-level model context; existing measures were only deﬁned on a high level 
and did not deﬁne speciﬁcs required for an application to actual projects. To use the 
underlying principles of a high-level measure in the ﬁeld setting, decisions had to be 
made about how to assess and count modiﬁed component reuse, partial component 
reuse, generated code, and multiple layers of abstraction.
Problem Identiﬁcation and Motivation
Most software development companies do not assess their success at reuse, even if they 
are actively pursuing an increase in the reuse of software artifacts through a formal 
reuse program. Thus, many software developers invest in corporate reuse programs 
without being able to evaluate whether their programs lead to an increase of reuse. 
Also, without a formal reuse measure, they are not able to identify differences in reuse 
success among projects. The development and subsequent dissemination of a reuse 
measure that can be applied to enterprise-level model-based reuse efforts would enable 
the researchers to conduct an in-depth analysis of MBA Technologies’ reuse success 
across multiple completed projects. Further, a measure would provide the means for 
continued monitoring of reuse success in software projects.
Objective of the Solution
The objective was to develop a reuse rate measure that allowed the researchers to assess 
the reuse rate, or reuse percentage, of the participating organization for subsequent 
case study research. Such a measure would represent the development effort that was 
reused from existing code as a percentage of the total project development effort. The 
measure was to be developed in a generic fashion that would ensure its applicability 
to settings other than the participating organization as well.
Design and Development
The software measurement literature was used to evaluate the suitability of potential 
size or complexity measures. The concept of the reuse rate was obtained from software 
reuse literature, which served as the theoretical foundation for the development of the 
reuse metric. The result of the design effort was a generic reuse measure that could be 
applied to any enterprise-level model-based reuse setting and that was customized to 
the speciﬁc organizational setting at MBA Technologies. The reuse rate was deﬁned 
as the reused development effort divided by the total development effort of the proj-
ect. The metric artifact operationalized this high-level deﬁnition by formalizing how 
to count reused development effort and total development effort in the context of an 
enterprise-level model-based reuse setting. This operationalization required making 
decisions on how to count duplicate use of code stubs, modiﬁed reused components, 
and other special cases. These decisions and assessments were made based on prior 
ﬁndings in the software reuse literature.
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     63
Demonstration
Assessing and reporting the reuse rate for a project in the participating organization 
demonstrated the measure’s feasibility and efﬁcacy. Details about the company’s 
development environment, including a classiﬁcation of code into three levels of ab-
straction, the use of generated code, speciﬁcs about the component design, and the 
classiﬁcation of certain code stubs, were obtained through structured interviews. Size 
measures in thousands of lines of code (KLOC) and the classiﬁcation of code stubs at 
the lowest level of abstraction were obtained directly from source code. The measure 
yielded separate reuse percentages for code on three layers of abstraction, according to 
the organization’s classiﬁcation, as well as a weighted total reuse percentage. Further, 
reused generated code was reported separately.
Evaluation
In the subsequent case study, the measure was used to assess the reuse rates of ﬁve 
projects at MBA Technologies, with sizes varying from 57 KLOC to 143 KLOC. The 
assessed total project reuse rate for nongenerated code ranged from 50.5 percent to 
76.0 percent. In structured interviews, developers were asked to assess the projects’ 
reuse rates without prior knowledge of the measured results. The relative assessments 
were consistent with the actual measurements.
Communication
The contributions of this effort were disseminated in peer-reviewed scholarly publi-
cations. The development of the reuse rate measure was published in Information & 
Management [42]. Further, the measure was used to assess the projects of the software 
development organizations in a subsequent case study that appeared in Decision 
Sciences [41].
Contribution
The research artifacts resulting from this study included a designed and evaluated 
formal measure and metric for software reuse rates. These artifacts provide a valid 
and effective measure for use in development practice at the organizational and project 
level for evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness and performance of software 
reuse efforts. They could be valuable measures for use in research where measures 
of software reuse are required.
Case 3: SIP-Based Voice- and Video-Over IP Software
The session initiation protocol (SIP) is an Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) 
standard for Internet protocol (IP) telephony that was developed for voice-over Internet 
communication. Researchers at the Network Convergence Lab (NCL) at Claremont 
Graduate University were involved since early 2000 in the standardization process 
\n64    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
for SIP-based voice communication. In early 2001, the Internet2 Consortium wanted 
to explore video-over IP applications as an emerging architecture for IP networks in 
cooperation with the NCL. This led to a research effort by Chatterjee [9], Gemmill et 
al. [17], and Tulu et al. [47, 48] focusing on the extension of the SIP standard [9, 17, 
47, 48], which is summarized in Figure 4.
A Design- and Development-Centered Approach
Building on the SIP-based voice communication standard, researchers at NCL aimed 
to design and deploy a voice- and videoconferencing-over IP application that enhances 
the SIP-based voice communication standard. This DS research artifact was to be 
deployed across 202 universities.
Problem Identiﬁcation and Motivation
There were three particular technical problems that emerged in discussions within 
the IETF and the Internet2 consortium. First, while SIP standards were emerging, 
there were no actual SIP-based software artifacts that would provide telephony and 
video functionalities and features. Second, because universities and companies use a 
variety of vendor products, technologies, and standards, there was a need to develop 
middleware that provided a uniform way for storing and ﬁnding information related 
to video and voice users, as well as devices and technologies in enterprise directories. 
This problem was particularly relevant to Internet2 because universities were imple-
menting diverse technology solutions. Third, there was a need to solve the security 
problem: some applications including SIP cannot traverse ﬁrewalls and fail to work 
when private IP addresses are used behind network address translators (NATs).
Objectives of the Solution
Several requirements drove the research effort. First, researchers needed to follow 
SIP technical standards closely. Second, the performance of the artifact could not be 
allowed to overwhelm the capabilities of a typical desktop computer of the time. Also, 
there were functions and features necessary to meet the requirements of the end users, 
including point-to-point calls, instant messaging, and videoconferencing. Furthermore, 
the middleware software for storing user and device information had to be compat-
ible with existing directory services within participating campuses. Finally, a security 
solution was required that would be implemented within the application in such a way 
that no external measures were required within ﬁrewalls and routers.
Design and Development
The design and development process followed that of an IS development research proj-
ect. It started with a requirements-gathering process, in which a diverse set of potential 
end users participated, resulting in requirements documentation, which was later used 
for designing a detailed technical architecture through Internet2 member meetings and 
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     65
Figure 4. DSRM Process for the CGUsipClient v1.1.x Project
\n66    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
mailing list discussions. In particular, the middleware that was developed was standard-
ized through the International Telecommunications Union’s standardization section 
(ITU-T), which required participation from several European and other international 
participants. The software was developed, based on computer science and networking 
literature, to provide a proof-of-concept and a fully working client application.
Demonstration
The implemented artifact includes the SIP application and its directory middleware. 
Implementation details serve as a demonstration of the approach. CGUsipClient v1.1.x 
is a Java-based application implemented on a commercial SIP stack. It uses Java 
Media Framework (JMF) application programming interfaces (API) for voice and 
video operations. It provides point-to-point telephony, video calls, directory service 
lookup, click-to-call, and secured authentication. It uses technologies to solve the se-
curity problems mentioned above and utilizes a lightweight directory access protocol 
(LDAP)–based solution for providing directory information. It uses an H.350 direc-
tory to offer “white page,” “click-to-call,” and “single sign-on” facilities. White page 
displays user information. Click-to-call enables a user to call another user by clicking 
on the other user’s SIP uniform resource identiﬁer (URI). Single sign-on provides an 
authenticating facility with an SIP-based proxy or a registrar based on the credentials 
fetched from the LDAP structure instead of explicitly providing the user name and 
the password for registration.
Evaluation
Once the software was developed, researchers started a thorough testing process. First, 
the artifact was extensively tested for debugging purposes within a closed group. Next, 
the application was shared with the entire Internet2 community via a Web portal, 
where users were able to download the software after providing information about 
themselves. The information provided was automatically linked to the middleware 
directory. More than 250 institutions downloaded the software artifact. The researchers 
found that 30 percent of those who downloaded the software used it for one or more 
hours daily. In addition, the CGUsipClient was tested for performance, usability, and 
usefulness. The researchers measured the call setup time, CPU usage, end-to-end delay; 
all results were satisfactory. The test of the H.350 middleware standard implementation 
showed that the directory service performed well and lookup time was satisfactory. 
Finally, the security mechanism that was developed to open and close pinholes in the 
ﬁrewall/NAT for active SIP sessions was successfully tested, indicating only minimal 
and acceptable delays. The Internet2 working group was pleased with the efforts, 
judging the design process successful.
Communication
Preliminary results of this project were reported in refereed conferences (e.g., [47, 48]) 
and detailed results appeared in IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications 
[9] and Journal of Internet Technology [17]. In addition, the middleware work received 
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     67
recognition in Internet2 and National Science Foundation (NSF) press releases. Trade 
magazines, such as Network World, and corporations, such as Packetizer, maintain the 
H.350 middleware standard information and details.
Contribution
This research enhanced and further developed the existing SIP voice-over IP standard 
into an SIP-based video-over IP standard. The enhanced standard was successfully 
evaluated and made available to the Internet2 working group, which may result in 
the commercial use of this new standard. Further, the existence of a video-over IP 
standard may serve as a foundation for future research aimed at enhancements of this 
technology.
Case 4: Developing a Method at Digia to Generate Ideas for  
New Applications That Customers Value
Digia Ltd. was a Helsinki-based research and development ﬁrm specializing in inno-
vative software applications for wireless communication that focused on the creation 
of personal communication technologies and applications for wireless information 
devices. This case reports the efforts of Peffers and colleagues [34, 36] at Digia, also 
illustrated in Figure 5, to develop a better IS planning method.
A Client-Initiated Project
In fall 2000, Digia Chairman Pekka Sivonen approached one of the authors with a 
request to help deﬁne a portfolio of potential applications for Digia to develop to meet 
the need for ﬁnancial services delivered by the next-generation wireless devices [36]. 
The researcher accepted this invitation because it ﬁt with his current research objective 
and that of colleagues: to develop a method to support the generation of ideas for IS 
projects that would provide the greatest impact on achieving a ﬁrm’s strategic goals. 
Because few applications for providing ﬁnancial services using mobile devices were 
in operation at the time, this looked like a good opportunity to use a new conceptual 
method for IS planning that the authors earlier trialed in a business case environment. 
Because the client’s objective was a portfolio of applications and the research objec-
tive was the development of a requirements engineering methodology for determin-
ing this portfolio, this meant that the initiative for the project came from a proposed 
demonstration of the new methodology.
Problem Identiﬁcation and Motivation
Literature had shown that in most ﬁrms, there was no shortage of ideas for new IS 
projects, but most tended to be suboptimal [36]. The problem was to design a method 
for managers to make use of the ideas of many people within and around the organiza-
tion, while keeping the focus on what is important and valuable for the ﬁrm. Bottom-up 
planning generates so many ideas that it may be impossible to sort out the few that 
\n68    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
Figure 5. DSRM Process for the Digia Study
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     69
have the potential to have a high impact on the ﬁrm, because most are self-serving, 
narrowly focused, and of little potential impact. Top-down planning has the beneﬁt of 
strategic perspective and better alignment with the interests of owners, but its weak-
ness is an inability to take advantage of knowledge from around the organization and 
beyond the organization about ideas that may be important to the ﬁrm. It generally 
ignores all ideas except those that originate in the executive suites.
Objectives of the Solution
The researchers’ objective was to demonstrate a new IS planning method in an in-
dustry setting. This allowed the researchers to study how well, in a noncontrolled test 
environment, the method would meet the proposed objectives: (1) allow them to make 
use of the ideas of many from in and around the organization; (2) include experts 
outside the ﬁrm and potential users, but keep the focus on ideas with high strategic 
value to the ﬁrm; and (3) transform the resulting data into forms that can be used for 
IS planning and development.
Design and Development
The Digia project researchers made use of a pilot study, conducted at Rutgers University 
[36], as the basic template for the new method. They used personal construct theory 
(PCT) [26] and critical success factors [39] as theoretical bases for the method devel-
opment. For the data collection, they borrowed “laddering,” a PCT-based technique 
developed for use in marketing research for structured interviewing, to collect rich 
data on subject reasoning and preferences. For the analysis, they adapted hierarchical 
value maps, which had been used in marketing to display aggregated laddering data 
graphically. They incorporated an ideation workshop, where business and technical 
expertise was brought to bear on the task of developing feasible ideas for new business 
applications from the graphical presented preferences and reasoning of the subjects. 
The result of the design effort was the CSC method for using the ideas of many people 
in and around the organization to develop portfolios of feasible application ideas that 
are highly valuable to the organization. In the Digia case, these concepts were applied 
to a real industry setting, which, in turn, allowed the researchers to extend the CSC 
method with concepts relevant to the case organization.
Demonstration
The researchers used the opportunity at Digia to demonstrate CSC’s feasibility and 
efﬁcacy [34, 36]. They started by recruiting and interviewing 32 participants, ap-
proximately evenly divided between experts and potential end users. They conducted 
individual structured interviews, using stimuli collected from the subjects ahead of 
time. The interview method was intended to encourage participants to focus on the 
value of ideas.
\n70    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
The laddering interviews provided rich data about applications the participants 
wanted and why. Using qualitative clustering, data were used to create ﬁve graphical 
maps, containing 114 preference and reasoning constructs. The next step was to conduct 
an ideation workshop with six business and engineering experts and managers from the 
ﬁrm to convert the participant preferences to feasible business project ideas at a “back-
of-the-envelope” level. In the workshop, conducted in isolation in a single ﬁve-hour 
stretch, the participants developed three business ideas, with application descriptions, 
business models, and interaction tables. These were further developed by analysts in 
postworkshop work to be integrated into the ﬁrm’s strategic planning effort.
Evaluation
The CSC method met the project’s objectives. It enabled the researchers to use rich 
data collected by a widely representative sample of experts and potential lead users 
from outside the ﬁrm, to keep the focus on ideas of potential strategic importance to 
the ﬁrm, and to analyze the data in such a way so as to make it useful for IS planning 
in the ﬁrm. Digia representatives were enthusiastic about the results of the workshop 
[36]. This feedback and the successful implementation of the method in practice en-
abled the project researchers to present initial “proof-of-concept”-level validation of 
the new method [34, 36]. The ﬁrm intended to use the resulting applications to plan 
its continued product development efforts.
Communication
The case study was reported in the Journal of Management Information Systems [36] 
and Information & Management [34]. The structure of these papers closely follows 
the nominal sequence of activities presented in the DSRM. In addition, the ﬁndings 
were presented in several practitioner-oriented outlets, including a book chapter [35], 
technical reports (e.g., [49]), and trade magazine articles (e.g., [50]).
Contribution
The artifact developed as a result of this research is a method for IS planning that 
can be used to make use of the knowledge of many people from in and around the 
organization, maintain focus on potential systems and applications of strategic value to 
the ﬁrm, and produce outputs of use to designers and managers in the IS development 
process. Consequently, it may be valuable for use in IS planning practice. In research, 
the method may be extended to enable planning efforts that focus on the development 
of requirements at the feature level, particularly to develop requirements engineering 
methods for such contexts as the development of cross-cultural feature sets and for 
special populations, such as for disabled persons.
Evaluation of the DSRM Process
WE EVALUATE THE DSRM PROCESS IN TERMS of the three objectives for the DSRM de-
scribed above. First, it should be consistent with prior DS research theory and practice, 
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     71
as it has been represented in the IS literature, and with design and DS research, as 
it has been conveyed in representative literature in reference disciplines. Second, it 
should provide a nominal process for conducting DS research in IS. Third, it should 
provide a mental model for the characteristics of research outputs. We will address 
each objective below.
First, the DSRM process is consistent with concepts in prior literature about DS 
in IS. Because we used a consensus method to design the DSRM, this consistency is 
an inherent outcome of the process. For example, Nunamaker et al.’s [33] ﬁve-step 
methodology can be mapped roughly to the DSRM process. Likewise, Walls et al.’s 
[55, 56] “components of an information system design theory,” Takeda et al.’s [46] 
“design cycle” solution for intelligent computer-aided design systems, Rossi and Sein’s 
[40] steps, Archer’s [2] process for industrial design, Eekels and Roozenburg’s [14] 
process for engineering design, and Hevner et al.’s [20] guidelines for the required 
elements of design research are all consistent with the DSRM.
Second, the DSRM provides a nominal process for conducting DS research. In 
addition, in the demonstration of four cases, we showed how each of the four DS 
research projects described in the cases followed a process consistent with the DSRM. 
In addition, the cases demonstrate each of the four research entry points described 
in the DSRM, including a problem-centered initiation, an objective-centered initia-
tion, a design- and development-centered initiation, and a client-/context-centered 
initiation. In each case, the process worked well, and it was effective for its intended 
purposes.
Third, the DSRM provides a mental model for the presentation of research out-
comes from DS research. The explication of the CATCH data warehouse, reported in 
Berndt et al. [5], incorporated all of the elements of the DSRM process, although it 
did not use the DSRM terminology. Rothenberger and Hershauer [42] followed the 
general outlines of the process in the structure of the paper, including a statement of 
the problem in the introduction, an explicit “purpose” section to outline the objectives 
of a solution, a design section called “creating the measure,” demonstration sections 
called “application of the measure to a speciﬁc problem,” and “example case data.” 
Peffers et al. used a structure based on Hevner et al. [20] and consistent with the 
DSRM to report the Digia case [36]. Chatterjee et al. [9] incorporated elements of the 
DSRM in presenting the research. The paper identiﬁed the problem and deﬁned the 
potential objectives or “beneﬁts” of a solution in the introduction; it also incorporated 
the other elements of the DSRM in “Design, Implementation, and Performance of 
CGUsipClient” [9, p. 1924].
Discussion
WE DEFINED DESIGN SCIENCE EARLIER IN THIS PAPER. Recently, however, researchers [9] 
have raised questions about similarities between DS and action research. Both Cole 
et al. [10] and Järvinen [24] concluded that the similarities between these research 
approaches are substantial. Cole et al. [10] argued that the approaches share im-
portant assumptions regarding ontology, epistemology, and axiology. Järvinen [24] 
pointed to many similarities, although they employ different terminology, and went 
\n72    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
so far as to suggest that we cannot clearly differentiate between them. Perhaps the 
clearest distinction between them is found in their conceptual origins. DS research 
comes from a history of design as a component of engineering and computer science 
research, while action research originates from the concept of the researcher as an 
“active participant” in solving practical problems in the course of studying them in 
organizational contexts. In DS research, design and the proof of its usefulness is the 
central component, whereas in action research, the focus of interest is the organizational 
context and the active search for problem solutions therein. Resolution of this point 
will have to remain outside the scope of this paper, but it presents an interesting and 
perhaps fruitful area for further thought. It would appear that the DSRM could be used 
as a structure to present action research. Likewise, the search for a designed artifact 
could be presented as action research. Clearly the side-by-side existence of the two 
methodologies presents the researcher with choices for the structure of the research 
process and the presentation of the resulting solution. This discussion also raises an 
interesting question about whether the DSRM could be used in an action research study, 
whether researchers could use it to design new innovations based on technical, social, 
or informational resources or their combinations [24], and whether action research 
and DS research could be conceptually and methodologically integrated.
The DSRM is intended as a methodology for research; however, one might wonder 
whether it might also be used as a methodology for design in practice. There would 
appear to be no reason it could not be so used; however, there are elements of the 
DSRM that are intended to support essential DS research characteristics that might 
not always apply well to design in practice.
A design artifact, such as a curved wooden staircase, a kitchen appliance, or a surgical 
knife, is not necessarily required to embody new knowledge that would be conveyed to 
an audience through a scientiﬁc publication outlet. Consequently, there is no inherent 
requirement that a designer employ any rigorous process to create it. There may, on 
the other hand, be organizational, evidentiary, regulatory, or other reasons why some 
level of process rigor may be required. The designer of the curved staircase might 
be free to work from a simple sketch with a few measurements, while the designer 
of the surgical knife might be required to proceed through a careful process of data 
collection, consultation, documentation, and testing. Thus, for design in practice, the 
DSRM may contain unnecessary elements for some contexts, while being much too 
general to support design in others.
An important step in the evaluation of the DSRM was its application to four cases 
of previously published DS research. The four studies were chosen in part because 
they represent examples of DS research with four different entry points as speciﬁed 
in the DSRM. None of the articles in which these studies were reported used the 
language of the DSRM to explain its research approach. Instead, they each used ad 
hoc arguments to support the validity of the research. We found this to be common in 
prior DS research in the IS ﬁeld, because hitherto no generally accepted framework 
for conducting and presenting DS research existed, at least not until Hevner et al.’s 
[20] guidelines provided characteristics of good DS research outcomes. Like Hevner 
et al. [20], we have used secondary data, in the form of four cases, to demonstrate 
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     73
the application of the DSRM. Results of the analysis of the four cases show that they 
are all instances of DS research that can be well framed in terms of the DSRM. Thus, 
we used the case discussions as a vehicle not only to evaluate the DSRM but also to 
transfer established DS research into a formal research framework and to illustrate 
its applicability. We expect that the case studies will provide useful templates for 
researchers who want to apply DSRM to their efforts. The development and evalua-
tion of the DSRM was heavily inﬂuenced by design research, thus DSRM concepts 
have guided us in the conduct and presentation of this work and this is reﬂected in the 
structure of this paper. Clearly, the next step would be to directly adopt the proposed 
methodology in new DS research. This is something that we are currently working 
on in our ongoing research.
The ad hoc justiﬁcation of prior DS research suggests the difﬁculty that authors 
faced, for lack of reference to a commonly accepted DS methodology, in supporting the 
validity of DS research in IS. Without a framework that is shared by authors, reviewers, 
and editors, DS research runs the danger of being mistaken for poor-quality empirical 
research or for practice case study. The DSRM completes a DS research paradigm 
with a methodology that is consistent with the DS research processes employed in the 
IS discipline, in this way establishing a common framework for future researchers to 
validate DS research, without making ad hoc arguments for its validity.
Conclusion
IN THIS PAPER, WE SOUGHT TO DEVELOP A METHODOLOGY for DS research in IS. We wanted 
this methodology to be well grounded in existing literature about DS in IS and related 
disciplines. In addition, we wanted a methodology that would provide guidance for 
researchers who work on DS research and provide a mental model for the presenta-
tion of its outcomes.
Interestingly, other research paradigms have been adapted for use in our discipline 
without such a formal deﬁnition. This is hardly surprising because IS research, if one 
counts from the tenure of our senior journals, is only about one-third of a century 
old. As a result, it was handed behavioral and natural science traditions from much 
older research disciplines in the business academe and adopted them without much 
adaptation. Consequently, this paper represents a unique effort to formally deﬁne a 
research methodology for use in IS.
We should emphasize that this paper represents one general methodological guide-
line for effective DS research. Researchers should by no means draw any inference 
that the DSRM is the only appropriate methodology with which to conduct such 
research. We can imagine that the efforts of others could result in at least ﬁve other 
types of DSRM:
 
1. A methodology to support curiously motivated DS research, although such 
research is not common in business disciplines, might look quite different than 
the DSRM. Some research in the social and natural sciences is driven primarily 
by curiosity and may therefore lack explicit outcome objectives.
\n74    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
 
2. A methodology to support research within a speciﬁc stream in IS might in-
corporate elements speciﬁc to the context of that research. For example, a 
methodology to support the design of methods for requirements analysis might 
provide guidelines for speciﬁc expected elements of requirements analysis, 
including organizational context, data gathering, modeling, and the form of the 
requirements speciﬁcation. We observed a number of context-speciﬁc design 
research methodologies in engineering.
 
3. Whereas the motivation for the research is to solve problems in a speciﬁc 
organizational context, action research, as suggested in preceding paragraphs, 
may be an alternative or complementary paradigm through which to design IS 
research artifacts.
 
4. With respect to speciﬁc activities in the research process, future researchers 
may enhance the DSRM, for example, by developing subsidiary processes.
 
5. Finally, circumstances, such as context-speciﬁc constraints, may motivate re-
searchers to develop and implement ad hoc processes that, while inconsistent 
with this DSRM, may, nonetheless, be well justiﬁed and produce valid results. 
While these ﬁve examples come readily to mind, it seems likely that there are other 
ways that DS research could be well done. We present these alternatives here, with-
out recommendation and without knowledge of their prior use, in speculation about 
what valid alternatives to the DSRM might be subsequently developed and used. In 
doing so, we are suggesting that the DSRM should not be used as a rigid orthodoxy 
to criticize work that does not follow it explicitly.
The case studies we provided with this paper demonstrate its use within the scope 
of four research problems. Further use will tell us whether there are problem domains 
where it requires extension or where it does not work well. Another interesting problem 
is that of the research entry point. We demonstrated that there are multiple possible 
entry points for DS research. Of course, this issue is not unique to DS research. We do 
not recall reading a theory-testing paper where the authors say that they decided on the 
research questions after they collected the data or even after they did the analysis, but 
we have all observed that this happens with no ill effects. The “scientiﬁc method” is 
an espoused theory, approximated but not always matched by theory in use. We think 
that a research methodology should account, as far as it is practical, for the research 
process in use.
Acknowledgments: The ﬁrst two authors made substantially similar contributions to this paper. 
First authorship was determined by rotation among papers.
REFERENCES
1. Adams, L., and Courtney, J. Achieving relevance in IS research via the DAGS framework. 
In R.H. Sprague Jr. (ed.), Proceedings of the Thirty-Seventh Annual Hawaii International Confer-
ence on System Sciences. Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society Press, 2004 (available at 
http://csdl2.computer.org/persagen/DLAbsToc.jsp?resourcePath=/dl/proceedings/&toc=comp/
proceedings/hicss/2004/2056/08/2056toc.xml&DOI=10.1109/HICSS.2004.1265615).
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     75
2. Archer, L.B. Systematic method for designers. In N. Cross (ed.), Developments in Design 
Methodology. London: John Wiley, 1984, pp. 57–82.
3. Aumann, H.H.; Chahine, M.T.; Gautier, C.; Goldberg, M.D.; Kalnay, E.; McMillin, L.M.; 
Revercomb, H.; Rosenkranz, P.W.; Smith, W.L.; Staelin, D.H.; Strow, L.L.; and Susskind, J. 
AIRS/AMSU/HSB on the Aqua mission: Design, science objectives, data products, and process-
ing systems. IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, 41, 2 (2003), 253–264.
4. Berndt, D.J.; Hevner, A.R.; and Studnicki, J. Data warehouse dissemination strategies 
for community health assessments. Upgrade, 2, 1 (2001), 48–54.
5. Berndt, D.J.; Hevner, A.R.; and Studnicki, J. The CATCH data warehouse: Support for 
community health care decision-making. Decision Support Systems, 35, 3 (2002), 367–384.
6. Berndt, D.J.; Hevner, A.R.; and Studnicki, J. Bioterrorism surveillance with real-time data 
warehousing. In H.E.A. Chen (ed.), IEEE International Conference on Intelligence and Security 
Informatics. Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society Press, 2003, pp. 322–335.
7. Berndt, D.J.; Fisher, J.W.; Hevner, A.R.; and Studnicki, J. Healthcare data warehousing 
and quality assurance. IEEE Computer, 34, 12 (December 2001), 56–63.
8. Berndt, D.J.; Bhat, S.; Fisher, J.W.; Hevner, A.R.; and Studnicki, J. Data analytics for bio-
terrorism surveillance. In H.E.A. Chen (ed.), IEEE International Conference on Intelligence and 
Security Informatics. Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society Press, 2004, pp. 17–27.
9. Chatterjee, S.; Tulu, B.; Abhichandani, T.; and Li, H. SIP-based enterprise converged 
network for voice/video-over IP: Implementation and evaluation of components. IEEE Journal 
on Selected Areas in Communications, 23, 10 (2005), 1921–1933.
10. Cole, R.; Purao, S.; Rossi, M.; and Sein, M.K. Being proactive: Where action research 
meets design research. In D. Avison, D. Galletta, and J.I. DeGross (eds.), Twenty-Sixth Inter-
national Conference on Information Systems. Atlanta: Association for Information Systems, 
2005, pp. 325–336.
11. Cooper, R.G. Stage-Gate Systems—A new tool for managing new products. Business 
Horizons, 33, 3 (1990), 44–54.
12. Cooper, R.G. Winning with new products: Doing it right. IVEY Business Journal, 64, 6 
(July–August 2000), 54–60.
13. DMReview. Glossary. SourceMedia, Brookﬁeld, WI, 2007 (available at www.dmreview 
.com/glossary/a.html).
14. Eekels, J., and Roozenburg, N.F.M. A methodological comparison of the structures of 
scientiﬁc research and engineering design: Their similarities and differences. Design Studies, 
12, 4 (1991), 197–203.
15. Evbuonwan, N.F.O.; Sivaloganathan, S.; and Jebb, A. A survey of design philosophies, 
models, methods and systems. Proceedings Institute of Mechanical Engineers, 210 (1996), 
301–320.
16. Fulcher, A.J., and Hills, P. Towards a strategic framework for design research. Journal 
of Engineering Design, 7, 1 (1996), 183–193.
17. Gemmill, J.; Srinivasan, A.; Lynn, J.; Chatterjee, S.; Tulu, B.; and Abhichandani, T. 
Middleware for scalable real-time multimedia communications cyberinfrastructure. Journal 
of Internet Technology, 5, 4 (2004), 405–420.
18. Gentner, D., and Stevens, A.S. Mental Models. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 
1983.
19. Haran, M.; Karr, A.; Last, M.; Orso, A.; Porter, A.; Sanil, A.; and Fouche, S. Techniques 
for classifying executions of deployed software to support software engineering tasks. IEEE 
Transactions on Software Engineering, 33, 5 (2007), 287–304.
20. Hevner, A.R.; March, S.T.; and Park, J. Design research in information systems research. 
MIS Quarterly, 28, 1 (2004), 75–105.
21. Hickey, A.M., and Davis, A.M. A uniﬁed model of requirements elicitation. Journal of 
Management Information Systems, 20, 4 (Spring 2004), 65–84.
22. Hoffman, R.R.; Roesler, A.; and Moon, B.M. What is design in the context of human-
centered computing? IEEE Intelligent Systems, 19, 4 (2004), 89–95.
23. Iivari, J.; Hirschheim, R.; and Klein, H.K. A paradigmatic analysis contrasting informa-
tion systems development approaches and methodologies. Information Systems Research, 9, 
2 (1998), 164–193.
\n76    PEFFERS, TUUNANEN, ROTHENBERGER, AND CHATTERJEE
24. Järvinen, P. Action research is similar to design science. Quality & Quantity, 41, 1 (2007), 
37–54.
25. Johnson-Laird, P., and Byrne, R. A gentle introduction. Mental Models Web-
site, School of Psychology, Trinity College, Dublin, 2000 (available at www.tcd 
.ie/Psychology/Ruth_Byrne/mental_models/).
26. Kelly, G.A. The Psychology of Personal Constructs. New York: W.W. Norton, 1955.
27. Klassi, J. Environmental enhancement of the oceans by increased solar radiation from 
space. Oceans, 17 (November 1985), 1290–1295.
28. Krishnamurthy, D.; Rolia, J.A.; and Majumdar, S. A synthetic workload generation tech-
nique for stress testing session-based systems. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, 
32, 11 (2006), 868–882.
29. Lisetti, C., and LeRouge, C. Affective computing in tele-home health. In R.H. Sprague 
Jr. (ed.), Proceedings of the Thirty-Seventh Annual Hawaii International Conference on System 
Sciences. Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society Press, 2004 (available at http://csdl2 
.computer.org/persagen/DLAbsToc.jsp?resourcePath=/dl/proceedings/&toc=comp/proceedings/
hicss/2004/2056/06/2056toc.xml&DOI=10.1109/HICSS.2004.1265373).
30. Maguire, M. Methods to support human-centered design. International Journal of 
Human–Computer Studies, 55, 4 (2001), 587–634.
31. March, S., and Smith, G. Design and natural science research on information technology. 
Decision Support Systems, 15, 4 (1995), 251–266.
32. McPhee, K. Design theory and software design. Technical Report, Department of Com-
puting Science, University of Alberta, 1996.
33. Nunamaker, J.F.; Chen, M.; and Purdin, T.D.M. Systems development in information sys-
tems research. Journal of Management Information Systems, 7, 3 (Winter 1990–91), 89–106.
34. Peffers, K., and Tuunanen, T. Planning for IS applications: A practical, information 
theoretical method and case study in mobile ﬁnancial services. Information & Management, 
42, 3 (2005), 483–501.
35. Peffers, K., and Tuunanen, T. The process of developing new services. In T. Saarinen, M. 
Tinnilä, and A. Tseng (eds.), Managing Business in a Multi-Channel World: Success Factors 
for E-Business. Hershey, PA: Idea Group, 2005, pp. 281–294.
36. Peffers, K.; Gengler, C.; and Tuunanen, T. Extending critical success factors methodol-
ogy to facilitate broadly participative information systems planning. Journal of Management 
Information Systems, 20, 1 (Summer 2003), 51–85.
37. Preston, M., and Mehandjiev, N. A framework for classifying intelligent design theories. 
In N. Mehandjiev and P. Brereton (eds.), Proceedings of the 2004 ACM Workshop on Interdis-
ciplinary Software Engineering Research. New York: ACM Press, 2004, pp. 49–54.
38. Reich, Y. The study of design methodology. Journal of Mechanical Design, 117, 2 (1994), 
211–214.
39. Rockart, J.F. Chief executives deﬁne their own data needs. Harvard Business Review, 
57, 2 (1979), 81–93.
40. Rossi, M., and Sein, M.K. Design research workshop: A proactive research approach. Paper 
presented at the Twenty-Sixth Information Systems Research Seminar in Scandinavia, Informa-
tion Systems Research in Scandinavia Association, Haikko, Finland, August 9–12, 2003.
41. Rothenberger, M.A. Project-level reuse factors: Drivers for variation within software 
development environments. Decision Sciences, 34, 1 (2003), 83–106.
42. Rothenberger, M.A., and Hershauer, J.C. A software reuse measure: Monitoring an en-
terprise-level model driven development process. Information & Management, 35, 5 (1999), 
283–293.
43. Simon, H. The Sciences of the Artiﬁcial. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1969.
44. Studnicki, J.; Steverson, B.; Myers, B.; Hevner, A.; and Berndt, D. Comprehensive 
assessment for tracking community health (CATCH). Best Practices and Benchmarking in 
Healthcare, 2, 5 (1997), 196–207.
45. Swaab, R.I.; Postmes, T.; Neijens, P.; Kiers, M.H.; and Dumay, A.C.M. Multi-party 
negotiation support: Visualization and the development of shared mental models. Journal of 
Management Information Systems, 19, 1 (Summer 2002), 129–150.
46. Takeda, H.; Veerkamp, P.; Tomiyama, T.; and Yoshikawam, H. Modeling design processes. 
AI Magazine, 11, 4 (Winter 1990), 37–48.
\nA DESIGN SCIENCE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY FOR IS RESEARCH     77
47. Tulu, B.; Chatterjee, S.; and Laxminarayan, S. A taxonomy of telemedicine efforts with 
respect to applications, infrastructure, delivery tools, type of setting and purpose. In R.H. Sprague 
Jr. (ed.), Proceedings of the Thirty-Eighth Annual Hawaii International Conference on System 
Sciences. Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society Press, 2005 (available at http://csdl2 
.computer.org/comp/proceedings/hicss/2005/2268/06/22680147b.pdf).
48. Tulu, B.; Abhichandani, T.; Chatterjee, S.; and Li, H. Design and development of an 
SIP-based video conferencing application. In M.M. Freire, P. Lorenz, and M.M.-O. Lee (eds.), 
High Speed Networks and Multimedia Communications. Heidelberg/Berlin: Springer, 2003, 
pp. 503–512.
49. Tuunanen, T. Critical success chains method. Technical Report LTT-Tutkimus Oy, Elek-
tronisen Kaupan Instituutti, Helsinki, 2001.
50. Tuunanen, T. Mitä käyttäjät todella haluavat [What do the users really want?]. Tietoviikko 
(Helsinki), 2002, 1.
51. Vaishnavi, V., and Kuechler, B. Design research in information systems. Association for 
Information Systems, 2005 (available at www.isworld.org/Researchdesign/drisISworld.htm).
52. van Aken, J.E. Management research based on the paradigm of the design sciences: The 
quest for ﬁeld-tested and grounded technological rules. Journal of Management Studies, 41, 
2 (2004), 219–246.
53. van Aken, J.E. Valid knowledge for the professional design of large and complex design 
processes. Design Studies, 26, 4 (2005), 379–404.
54. Vandenbosch, B., and Higgins, C.A. Executive support systems and learning: A model 
and empirical test. Journal of Management Information Systems, 12, 2 (Fall 1995), 99–130.
55. Walls, J.; Widmeyer, G.; and El Sawy, O. Building an information system design theory 
for vigilant EIS. Information Systems Research, 3, 1 (1992), 36–59.
56. Walls, J.; Widmeyer, G.; and El Sawy, O. Assessing information system design theory 
in perspective: How useful was our 1992 initial rendition? Journal of Information Technology 
Theory & Application, 6, 2 (2004), 43–58.
\nView publication stats
