Engineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
Available online 8 March 2024
2215-0986/© 2024 THE AUTHORS. Published by Elsevier BV on behalf of Karabuk University. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
Adaptive FEM-BPNN model for predicting underground cable temperature
considering varied soil composition
Abdullah Ahmed Al-Dulaimi a,*, Muhammet Tahir Guneser a, Alaa Ali Hameed b,
Fausto Pedro García M´arquez c, Osama E. Gouda d
a Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Karabuk University, Karabuk 78050, Turkey
b Department of Computer Engineering, Istinye University, Istanbul 34396, Turkey
c Ingenium Research Group, University of Castilla-La Mancha, 13071 Ciudad Real, Spain
d Department of Electrical Power Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Cairo University, 12613 Giza, Egypt
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
Backpropagation neural networks
Cable ampacity
Finite element method
Thermal fields
Underground power cables
A B S T R A C T
In underground cables of power systems, the maximum temperature of the cable is a crucial factor in determining
its capacity. According to standards, the permissible operating temperature for the XLPE cable conductor under
steady-state conditions is 90 ◦C – a limit that should not be exceeded. Exceeding this temperature may lead to a
thermal breakdown in the cable insulation, thereby resulting in interruption of the electrical power supply. Many
factors affect the cable temperature, particularly through the processes of heat dissipation and diffusion from the
cable into its surroundings. These factors include soil types and compositions, cable installation configuration,
and thermo physical properties; therefore, accurate analysis of these factors is crucial for cable loading. In this
study, the finite element method (FEM) is employed to predict the cable temperature considering different soil
compositions and to present a new approach for the thermal analysis of an underground cable system. The novel
approach considers various environmental conditions including single-layer and multi-layer soil types, homo-
geneous and non-homogeneous soil compositions, two configuration types – flat and trefoil – as well as two types
of backfill materials, specifically sand-cement mixture backfill (SCMB) and fluidized thermal backfill (FTB), and
dry zones to offer deeper insight into a thermal analysis. Given that the FEM requires the construction of a
complex geometric model within an optimal operating condition to obtain results with high accuracy—a process
that can often be complex as well as not adaptable because it depends on constant mathematical calcu-
lation—This paper presents a novel approach FEM-BPNN that uses an adaptive Backpropagation neural networks
(BPNN) model as its mainstay. The proposed BPNN model exploits historical data from FEM to refine its pre-
dictive power, therefore, increasing its efficiency and accuracy. Furthermore, the model is subject to an opti-
mization process, adjusting and refining its internal parameters in response to new data, with the ultimate goal of
improving the predictive model capabilities for the temperature of underground power cables. The results
underscored the high performance of FEM in the simulation, and it was observed that FEM yielded results closely
aligned with those of the IEC standard. Moreover, the proposed FEM-BPNN demonstrated exceptional accuracy,
achieving a low RMSE score of 0.008. It also exhibited impressive performance in the linear regression analysis,
with an R2 value of 0.99. These metrics collectively signify the robustness and efficacy of the model.
1. Introduction
Heat transfer is an essential aspect of many engineering applications
as it impacts the performance and safety of various devices, systems,
main components [1–5]. In the context of underground cables, cable
capacity is an essential parameter that determines the maximum rated
current that a cable can safely carry without exceeding its temperature
limits [6–9]. In a non-optimal environment, the temperature of the cable
* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: 2038171016@ogrenci.karabuk.edu.tr (A.A. Al-Dulaimi).
URL: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=7qRez00AAAAJ&hl=en (A.A. Al-Dulaimi), https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=JwOsqFgAAAAJ&hl=en
(M.T. Guneser), https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=2v87lDkAAAAJ&hl=en (A.A. Hameed), https://blog.uclm.es/faustopedrogarcia/ (F.P.G. M´arquez),
https://scholar.google.com.eg/citations?user=rMLc2mQAAAAJ&hl=en (O.E. Gouda).
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Engineering Science and Technology,
an International Journal
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jestch
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jestch.2024.101658
Received 1 September 2023; Received in revised form 14 February 2024; Accepted 19 February 2024
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
2
core can exceed its designed operating thresholds, leading to insulation
degradation, cable damage, and even electrical fires. On the other hand,
heat transfer analysis focuses on the flow of thermal energy due to
temperature differences of the cable materials. Finite element method
(FEM) can be used to simulate heat transfer in underground cables and
predict the temperatures of the cable elements and its surrounding
environment. This information can be useful in estimating the temper-
ature rise of the cable and its effect on the cable capacity.
Effective heat transfer management is crucial for ensuring the safe
and efficient operation of underground cables. The problem statement in
heat transfer for underground cables is multifaceted, necessitating a
systematic and scientific approach to address the various issues. The
main challenge is to develop a robust and accurate method for calcu-
lating the temperature around underground cables, taking into consid-
eration the complex interplay between various factors such as soil types
and compositions, cable installation configuration, and thermo physical
properties. The methods of temperature calculation are essential for
engineers and can be utilities to predict and monitor cable temperatures,
ensuring that cables operate within their thermal limits and prevent
overheating incidents. Furthermore, the impact of cable geometry
models and cable configurations, such as flat and trefoil arrangements,
on heat dissipation and heat diffusion from the cable core to the surface
ground must be investigated. This requires examining the influence of
cable spacing, depth, and installation methods on heat transfer man-
agement and understanding the trade-offs between various cable con-
figurations and their thermal performance. Another aspect of the
problem statement involves analyzing the effects of homogenous and
non-homogenous soil on heat dissipation and diffusion [10–13]. This
includes understanding how variations in soil composition, moisture
content, and density can influence heat transfer and cable performance.
Additionally, the potential variations in soil properties due to dry zone
formed-induced effects need to be considered, as they may significantly
impact the thermal performance of underground cables.
Many research papers have been published on the topic of thermal
performance of underground cables. Karahan et al. [14] investigated the
effects of electrical parameters on cable core temperature, which in turn
affects cable ampacity. The authors employed the FEM to calculate
temperature distribution, utilizing an electric-thermal combined model
that incorporated environmental factors and cable properties. The study
revealed that factors like soil thermal resistivity and weather conditions
play a role in affecting the current carrying capacity of power cables.
Furthermore, the electric-thermal combined model proves effective in
accurately
determining
both
temperature
distribution
and
cable
ampacity. Al-Saud et al. [15] proposed a new algorithm for perturbed
finite-element analysis to calculate thermal field sensitivities and ca-
pacity of underground power cables subject to variations in the cable
thermal circuit parameters. The proposed methodology was validated
through laboratory experiments and applied to various practical cable
systems. Hwang and Jiang [16] proposed electromagnetic FEM for a
thermal analysis of underground power cables directly buried in banks
and PVC ducts. Liang [17] presented the challenge of accurately
computing permissible conductor currents in underground power cable
systems, which are often operated at maximum capacity. The author
employed the streamline-upwind/petrov-galerkin (SUPG) and FEM for
steady-state thermal analysis and verified it with a full-size experimental
setup. The study concluded that the SUPG method offered better
calculation accuracy than traditional analytical methods, particularly in
accounting for convection-induced heat exchange.
Al-Saud et al. [18] presented an optimization problem focused on
thermal field parameters for underground power cables. Utilizing
nonlinear programming and finite element analysis, the authors
employed methods like generalized reduced gradient (GRG) to solve the
complex issue. They found optimized thermal conductivities for various
layers around the cables, achieving temperature reductions and
ampacity improvements in different scenarios. Li et al. [19] presented a
method for real-time assessment of underground cable ratings using
distributed temperature sensing (DTS). Addressing the dynamic nature
of soil thermal properties, the authors employed a combination of FEM
and gradient-based optimization to estimate these parameters. They
found that their approach accurately predicted cable surface tempera-
tures and improved operational efficiency, validating their method both
in the lab and on a 230-kV/500-MV A cable circuit. [20] investigated a
critique of existing thermal models like IEC 60287 and Electra 143 for
medium-voltage (MV) power cables in conduit installations, high-
lighting their oversimplifications. The authors employed laboratory
measurements and finite element analysis (FEA) to investigate natural
convection and air–gap thermal resistance. The authors found that the
Raithby and Hollands Nusselt number correlation closely matched
measured values, advocating for real-time installation environment
modeling for more accurate cable ratings.
Numerous researchers have focused on the characteristics of the soil
in which underground cables are buried, particularly in the case of non-
homogeneous soil [10], these studies examined the non-uniform un-
derground temperature distribution under different installation condi-
tions and its impact on cable ampacity [21], to predict temperature
distribution around existing underground cable systems, researchers
conducted an experimental study on a scale model of a buried electric
cable with different configurations and thermal properties of the mother
soil and materials used to fill the trench [22]. In order to optimize the
installation of buried electrical cables, the paper presented the issue of
insufficient experimental data for electrical systems buried in non-
homogeneous soils. The authors investigated this gap by creating a
scale model to experimentally validate a numerical model and a
simplified method they had previously proposed. The authors evaluated
the thermal resistance of the soil. The authors found that the experi-
mental data closely aligned with the numerical model [23]. The accurate
calculation of the ampacity (maximum current-carrying capacity) of
underground power cables is affected by soil moisture content [24]. To
develop an improved thermal model for underground power cables,
specifically in relation to cyclic ratings and thermal analysis, the authors
conducted experimental work on eight different soil types. They deter-
mined the relationship between moisture content and specific heat with
soil temperature and identified the temperature at which the formation
of the dry zone occurs for each soil type [25]. The effect of the dry zone
formation on the underground power cables capacities is investigated in
[26].
Vollaro et al. [27] presented the limitations of the IEC 60287 stan-
dard, which often oversimplifies the thermal resistance calculations for
underground electrical power cables by assuming homogeneous soil.
The authors employed a control-volume formulation of the finite-
difference method and conducted extensive numerical simulations.
The authors derived a semi-empirical correlating equation with a 3.6 %
standard deviation of error, proving to be more reliable and efficient
than the existing IEC 60287 standard. Continuing this line of research,
Maximov et al. [21] discussed the issue of inadequate models for
calculating underground cable ampacity due to non-uniform soil tem-
peratures. The author employed mathematical equations and iterative
methods to develop a more realistic model. The results validated the
proposed model as a more general formulation than existing ones,
suggesting room for further improvement by considering environmental
heating factors. Ocło´n, Paweł, et al. [10] presented an in-depth analysis
of the shortcomings of prevalent thermal models such as IEC 60287,
which frequently oversimplify underground power cable systems by
assuming a homogeneous soil structure with constant thermal conduc-
tivity. To address this, the authors utilized the FEM to simulate a more
complex, multilayered soil environment and different cable bedding
conditions. The authors also incorporated various boundary conditions
to enhance the realism of their simulations. The study concluded that the
FEM simulations were in good agreement with ANSYS simulations,
suggesting that their methodology provides a more accurate and
comprehensive framework for assessing heat dissipation processes in
underground power cables situated in thermal backfill and multilayered
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
3
soil.
Several techniques have been employed to optimize and study
various aspects of underground power cable systems. In Ref. [28], the
authors used a radial basis function neural network (RBNN) and a ge-
netic algorithm (GA) to optimize the laying parameters of parabolic-type
fluidized thermal backfill (FTB) trefoil buried cables, aiming to enhance
the overall cable performance through proper geometric design. In
Ref. [29], the authors introduced an adaptive optimized particle swarm
optimization (PSO) algorithm combined with a back propagation neural
network (LFVPSO-BPNN) and further enhanced it with GA. This solution
was used to accurately predict the temperature and maximum current
capacity of trench-laid cables. The authors found their combined
approach to be reliable, accurate, and computationally efficient, closely
aligning with COMSOL multiphysics simulations. Ref. [30] utilized a
modified jaya algorithm and the FEM to minimize the total material
costs of an underground power cable system while ensuring the cable
conductor temperature did not exceed 65 ◦C. In Ref. [31], the authors
employed the FEM and the PSO method to optimize material costs for a
400 kV cable line in a flat formation, aiming to ensure safe and reliable
operation by keeping the cable core temperature below 90 ◦C. Finally,
Ref. [32] discussed the complex issue of optimizing both material costs
and electric-thermal performance in underground power cable systems
(UPCS). The authors introduced a modified jaya algorithm (MJaya) and
validated it against existing methods like PSO. They found that MJaya
excelled in minimizing cable backfill costs and maximizing allowable
electric current, outperforming PSO in these metrics.
Based on the related works discussed, this paper presents a novel
approach for the thermal analysis of underground power cables.
Application is carried out on 132 kV with a geometric cross-section area
of 749.9 mm2. The FEM is employed to calculate temperatures around
cables, taking into account various soil types, cable installation config-
uration, and thermo physical properties. Subsequently, BPNN is applied
for temperature estimation and prediction. The structure of the analysis
conducted in this study is outlined as follows:
(i) This paper presents an analysis of the one-term transient state,
which represents the maximum load condition. The analysis ex-
amines this state under various environmental conditions.
(ii) This study analyzes the impact of both homogeneous and non-
homogeneous soils on cable heat dissipation and heat diffusion,
with specific investigations into the influence of variations in soil
composition and thermal properties, particularly soil thermal
conductivity. The presence of dry zones and their effects are also
examined. The scope of this research is extended to include the
impact of two types of backfill materials, namely SCMB and FTB,
on heat transfer around underground cables and how these ma-
terials influence heat dissipation and cable performance. Addi-
tionally, potential strategies to mitigate the challenges posed by
variations in soil thermal properties on cable performance are
explored.
(iii) The study examines the effects of different geometry models for
underground cables on heat dissipation and heat diffusion from
the cable core to the surface ground, assessing the efficiency of
various cable configurations such as flat and trefoil arrange-
ments, and analyzing the influence of cable spacing, depth, and
installation methods on heat transfer management.
(iv) Given the complexities of the FEM, which demands the con-
struction of a complex geometric model within a proficient
working environment to obtain highly accurate results, this paper
presents a novel approach. This innovative approach principally
relies on an adaptive model powered by BPNN. The proposed
BPNN model utilizes historical data to improve its predictions,
enhancing its efficiency and accuracy. Moreover, the model un-
dergoes a process of fine-tuning, where it adjusts and optimizes
its internal parameters according to new incoming data. The
objective of this fine-tuning process is to improve the model’s
performance in predicting the temperature of underground
power cables. This approach not only reduces the computational
complexity involved in employing FEM alone but also leverages
the power of machine learning to offer accurate and timely pre-
dictions. This fusion of traditional simulation methods with
contemporary machine learning techniques signifies an impor-
tant step towards smarter and more efficient systems for moni-
toring and managing underground power cables.
2. Materials and methods
2.1. Influential factors on cable performance
This paper focuses on the various factors that affect the performance
of underground cable systems as illustrated in Fig. 1(a). These factors
include the surrounding environment, which can consist of either single-
layer and multi-layer soils that are composition-dependent (homoge-
neous and nonhomogeneous), as well as the cable geometry and
configuration, insulation, and other features such as armor or shielding.
The backfill material which are SCMB and FTB, cable dimensions, depth
of burial (H), and distance between adjacent cables (S) also play a sig-
nificant role in the thermal behavior and performance of underground
cables. Furthermore, the temperature of the ground surface (Tsg) is an
important factor in determining the heat transfer from an underground
cable to the surrounding environment. Understanding these factors and
their impact on cable performance is critical for designing and operating
reliable and safe underground cable systems. Proper consideration of
these factors can also help to maximize the capacity of the cable and
minimize the risk of overheating, thereby extending the lifespan of the
cable and reducing maintenance costs. Referring to Fig. 1(b), it can be
observed that there are three types of temperature rating: Rated
conductor temperature 90 ◦C, emergency rating 105 ◦C> <140 ◦C, and
short circuit cable rating 250 ◦C. In this paper, the cable core maximum
temperature is taken as 90 ◦C.
2.2. Geometric modeling and volumetric heat flux calculation in cable
conductor
Fig. 2(a) shows the structure of the cable used as a case study; its
rating is 132 kV. Its maximum conductor temperature in service is 90 ◦C,
copper conductor and cross linked polyethylene (XLPE) insulation.
Fig. 2(b) shows the internal and external thermal resistance and cable
dimensions. Table 1 is divided into two sub-tables: (A) presents the cable
layers and the materials used to manufacture the layers and (B) presents
the thermal conductivity characteristics of the cable layers, soil, and
backfill. Fig. 3 shows the environments surrounding the buried cable,
which is single-layer homogeneous soil, multi-layer homogeneous or
non-homogeneous soil, as well as the geometric dimensions of the sur-
rounding environment. Homogeneous soil is uniform in its composition
and properties throughout the entire region being considered. In the
context of underground cable systems, this means that the soil sur-
rounding the cables has constant properties (e.g., thermal conductivity,
density, moisture content) throughout the entire length of the cable run.
On the other hand, non-homogeneous soil is not uniform in its compo-
sition or properties. Instead, it has variations in properties within the
region being considered. In the context of underground cable systems,
this means that the soil surrounding the cables has different properties in
different sections of the cable run. For example, the soil may have
different thermal conductivities or moisture contents in different sec-
tions. This can impact the thermal behavior of the cable and must be
taken into account when designing and operating underground cable
systems. In both homogeneous and non-homogeneous soil conditions,
multilayered soil consists of native soil (with a thermal conductivity of
1 W/mK), medium soil (with a thermal conductivity of 2.28 W/mK),
and sand clay loam (with a thermal conductivity of 1.54 W/mK).
Additionally, two types of backfill materials, namely SCMB and FTB, are
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
4
employed. In non-homogeneous conditions, the temperature of the soil
layers approaching the maximum allowable cable temperature results in
the formation of dry zones around the power cables. These dry zones
cause variations in the thermal conductivities of the soil layers sur-
rounding the cables. The effects of these various factors on the thermal
behavior of underground cable systems are analyzed to provide a better
understanding of how the surrounding environment impacts the per-
formance of buried cables [26,27].
The volumetric heat flux is a key parameter in this analysis, as it
quantifies the rate of heat energy transfer per unit volume in the cable
conductor, as described by the following equation:
qv(Tc) = Wc
A
(1)
where A = πr2
co = 749.9 mm2 is the geometric cross-section area of the
conductor, and Wc is the cable heat losses (Joule losses) can be calcu-
lated through the equation below:
Wc = I2Rac
(2)
Fig. 1. Thermal considerations for underground cables, (a) role of surrounding environment, cable configuration, and backfill material, and (b) temperature ratings.
Fig. 2. Cable construction details, (a) cable layers, (b) power cable cross-section and thermal resistance.
Table 1
Cable layers material and physical properties.
(A)
(B)
Number of layers
Elements
Material
Elements
Materials
Conductivity
(W/mK) = (1/ρ)
1
Conductor
Copper
Conductor
Copper
386
2
Conductor screen
Semiconductor
Insulation
XLPE
0.2875
3
Insulation
XLPE
Jacket
HDPE
0.2875
4
Insulator screen
Semiconductor
Sheath
Copper
386
5
Swelling tape
Semi-conductive
Native soil
–
1(kwet +kdry)
6
Wire screen
Copper
Medium soil
–
2.28(kwet +kdry)
7
Swelling tape
Semi-conductive
Sand clay loam
–
2(kwet +kdry)
8
Radial sealing
Aluminum
Backfill
SCMB
1
9
Jacket
HDPE
Backfill
FTB
1.54
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
5
where Rac is AC conductor resistance (Ω/m), it is computed using the
subsequent equation according to IEC 60287-1-2 [33]:
Rac = Rdc
(
1 + γs + γp
)
Rdc = R20(1 + α20(T −20),
for copper α20 = 3.93 × 10 −3
R20 = ρ20
A , for copper ρ20 = 1.68 × 10 −8
(3)
Given the temperature-dependent nature of the conductor resistance,
which changes with temperature, Rdc (Ω/m) is the actual conductor
resistance at temperature T. γs, γp are skin effect and proximity effect,
respectively, according to IEC 60287-1-2 [33]:
γs =
x4
s
192 + 0.8x4
s
(4)
where α20 is the temperature coefficient and T is the ambient tempera-
ture.
x2
s = 8πf
Rdc
10−7ks,
ksthisvalueisgivenbythestandardtable
(5)
γp =
x4
p
192 + 0.8x4
p
(dc
s
)2
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎣0.312
(dc
s
)2
+
1.18
x4p
192+0.8x4p + 0.27
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎦
(6)
x2
p = 8πf
Rdc
10−7kp, kp
this value is given by the standard table
(7)
where dc is conductor diameter and s is the distance between the
conductor axis xs and xp are argument of a Bessel function used to
calculate skin effect and proximity effect.
2.3. Adaptive FEM-BPNN architecture
GDM =
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎢⎣
S1
S2
xmin
xc
xmax
yc
ymin
r
0
ymax
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎥⎦
(8)
For a rectangle S1 = 1, xmin = x1, xmax = x2, ymin = y1, ymax = y2, and
for a circle S2 = 2, the center coordinates are (xc, yc), and the radius is r.
This step is followed by the selection of the appropriate edge labels
and face indices for utilization in the boundary equations. Subsequently,
we generate a triangulated mesh, which acts as a discretized represen-
tation of the geometric domain of the problem; in essence, this consti-
tutes a network or grid composed of small, interconnected elements.
Once the mesh is established, we proceed to set the thermophysical
properties, these include thermal conductivities, mass density, and
specific heat for the various cable layers, soil layers, and backfill
bedding.
The partial differential equation, known as the transient heat con-
duction equation, can be expressed as:
∇⋅(k∇T) + qv = ρCp
∂T
∂t
(9)
In transient conditions, where
temperature varies
with time
(∂T/∂t ∕= 0), the heat conduction equation is:
∇⋅(k∇T) = ∂
∂x
(
kmaterials(T) ∂T
∂x
)
+ ∂
∂y
(
kmaterials(T) ∂T
∂y
)
(10)
For the conductor (internal heat source):
∂
∂x
(
kcon(T) ∂T
∂x
)
+ ∂
∂y
(
kcon(T) ∂T
∂y
)
= ρc ∂T
∂t −qv(Tc)
(11)
For the insulator, external layers, backfill, and soil:
∂
∂x
(
kins, ex, bf, so (T) ∂T
∂x
)
+ ∂
∂y
(
kins, ex, bf, so (T) ∂T
∂y
)
= ρc ∂T
∂t
(12)
ρ is the density of the material, Cp is the specific heat capacity of the
material, T is the temperature, and t is time. kcon, kex, k bf, kso, are the
thermal conductivities of the conductor, external layers, backfill, and
soil, respectively. ∇represents the gradient operator, qv is the volu-
metric heat generation rate due to the current passing through the cable.
This is the heat source term that you can calculate based on the current
and other cable properties.
Following this, we establish the boundary conditions and initial
conditions. These correspond to the temperature at the point of contact
with the soil surface and the initial soil temperature. Next, we designate
the internal heat source, represented by the volumetric heat source (qv)
per unit volume of the cable conductor. Finally, after setting all con-
Fig. 3. The geometric model of cable burial, a) flat formation in homogeneous, b) trefoil formation in homogeneous, c) flat formation non-homogeneous, and d)
trefoil formation in non-homogeneous.
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
6
stants and variable values, we proceed to solve the thermal model. Our
objective is to compute the temperature vector for each element in the
homogeneous case and account for temperature-dependent thermal
conductivity in non-homogeneous cases.
After calculation of the temperature vector for each element across all
cases – including single-layer homogeneous soil, multi-layer homogeneous
soil, and multi-layer non-homogeneous soil, the multidimensional aspects
of cable geometry in these environments are considered. The transition
then occurs to the feature selection algorithm [35], where the chosen
feature is the maximum temperature. This process forms part of the
preparation of a dataset for Training-BPNN. Each case has an input matrix
that can be increased according to the case of the study, considering the
thermal conductivities of soil and other parameters that affect temperature
distribution. BPNN utilizes stochastic gradient descent to adjust weights
and minimize error, which is the difference between the target and pre-
dicted values. This process occurs after the initial feedforward operation
(
X × wij→σ(x) =
1
1+e−x × wjk→σ(x) =
1
1+e−x = p, e = t −p
)
,
which
em-
ploys weights and biases with randomly assigned values. Upon completion
of the training process, the model becomes pretrained and ready for vali-
dation and testing. The learning behavior of the model can be optimized by
upsampling a real dataset obtained from DTS or other sensors, specifically,
for the dataset which suffers from inadequate knowledge that could pro-
vide better prediction performance.
Fig. 4. FEM architecture for solving heat transfer in underground cables.
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
7
3. Result and discussion
3.1. Cables in a single-layer homogenous soil
In this case, the underground cables are buried in a single-layer
homogeneous soil, as depicted in Fig. 3(a) and (b). The burial configu-
rations include both flat and trefoil, using two types of backfill materials
– SCMB and FTB. The depth of the backfill is not constant; it varies with
the depth of the cables. The homogeneous environment in this case is
defined as native soil. The cables are buried at depths H ranging from 0.8
to 1.2 m, with the distance between cables S ranging from 0.1 to 0.4 m
for flat and from 0.008 to 0.2 m for trefoil. The surface ground tem-
perature Tsg is varied from 20 to 50 ◦C, while the soil temperature Tsoil is
maintained at a constant 15 ◦C. This section will discuss the effects of
these factors on the thermal behavior and performance of the under-
ground cable system.
Figs. 5 and 6 depict the temperature distributions surrounding the
underground power cable system for Flat-SCMB and Flat-FTB, respec-
tively, in single-layer homogeneous soil. Both configurations have ca-
bles at a depth of 80 cm and a distance of 40 cm between them. Figs. 5(a)
and 6(a) display the maximum temperature curve on the X-axis for an
environment width of −4 to 4 m, and the results show that the central
conductor achieves a maximum temperature of 84.31 ◦C and 82.99 ◦C,
respectively, due to mutual thermal effects. Figs. 5(b) and 6(b) show the
maximum temperature curve on the Y-axis for an environment depth of
0 to 4.7 m, and the cable simulations in the Y-axis appear as a single
cable in temperature distribution because the cable configuration is flat.
Figs. 5(c) and 6(c) show 2D temperature distributions for the cables and
surrounding environment. For the Fig. 6(c) the high thermal conduc-
tivity of the FTB material, which is typically around 1.54 W/mK, allows
for efficient heat transfer between the cables and the surrounding soil,
this can help to reduce the temperature rise of the cables and prevent
overheating, which can help to ensure that the cables remain reliable
and functional for longer periods. Furthermore, both figures show the
direction of heat flux, which in this case would be from the cable to-
wards the surrounding soil, since the cable temperature is higher than
the temperature of the surrounding soil (14 ◦C). The surface ground
temperature (20 ◦C) is between the cable and the surrounding soil
temperature, so there would likely be a temperature gradient between
the cable and the surface ground as well.
Figs. 7 and 8 both show temperature distributions surrounding un-
derground power cable systems, with Fig. 7 depicting the Trefoil-SCMB
configuration and Fig. 8 depicting the Trefoil-FTB configuration. In the
flat configuration, higher mutual inductance and electromagnetic fields
between the cables can result, which may lead to increased losses and
interference. On the other hand, in the trefoil configuration, the three
cables are evenly spaced and placed close together in an equilateral
triangle formation, this arrangement helps to minimize the electro-
magnetic fields and mutual inductance between the cables while
ensuring efficient use of space.
In the case of Trefoil-SCMB, the cables are at a depth of 80 cm, with a
distance of 20 cm between them. This close distance results in mutual
thermal effects, leading to increased cable temperatures and causing
thermal stress that can degrade the performance and lifespan of the
cables. Fig. 7(a) shows the maximum temperature curve on the X-axis
for an environment width of −4 to 4 m, with all three conductors
achieving a maximum temperature of 86.10 ◦C due to mutual thermal
effects. Fig. 7(b) shows the maximum temperature curve on the Y-axis
for an environment depth of 0 to 4.7 m, with the cable simulation in the
Y-axis appearing as double cables in temperature distribution because of
the Trefoil configuration. Fig. 7(c) depicts 2D temperature distributions
for the cables and surrounding environment, as well as the direction of
heat flux, which would be from the cable towards the surrounding soil
due to the cable temperature being higher than the temperature of the
surrounding soil (14 ◦C).
In the case of Trefoil-FTB, the cables are also at a depth of 80 cm with
a distance of 20 cm between them. Fig. 8(a) shows the maximum tem-
perature curve on the X-axis for an environment width of −4 to 4 m, with
all three conductors achieving a maximum temperature of 84.64 ◦C due
to mutual thermal effects. The observed temperature decrease in the
three conductors can be attributed to the high thermal conductivity of
the FTB material, which facilitated efficient heat transfer between the
cables and the surrounding soil. This allowed for the dissipation of heat
outside the cables, thereby reducing the temperature of the conductors.
Fig. 8(b) shows the maximum temperature curve on the Y-axis for an
environment depth of 0 to 4.7 m, with the cable simulation in the Y-axis
appearing as double cables in temperature distribution due to the Trefoil
configuration. Fig. 8(c) depicts 2D temperature distributions for the
cables and surrounding environment, as well as the direction of heat
flux, which would also be from the cable towards the surrounding soil
due to the cable temperature being higher than the temperature of the
surrounding soil (14 ◦C). However, the high thermal conductivity of the
FTB material, which is typically around 1.54 W/mK, allows for efficient
heat transfer between the cables and the surrounding soil.
As observed in the figures that depicted the Y-axis temperature dis-
tribution, there is a fluctuation in the Y-axis perspective. This fluctuation
is due to the method used to calculate the temperature distribution on
the Y-axis, where the maximum value was taken from every 100 values.
As
a
result,
some
points
include
values
that
represent
lower
temperatures.
3.2. Cables in a multi-layer homogeneous soil
In this case, the soil consists of three layers: native soil, medium soil,
and sand clay loam (As depicted in Fig. 3(c) and (d)), each of these soil
layers contributes to the overall behavior and characteristics of the soil
surrounding the underground cables. The properties of the soil layers,
including thermal conductivity, moisture content, and density, influence
the heat dissipation and thermal performance of the cables. Each layer
has its respective conductivity, as listed in Table 1.
Figs. 9–12 depict temperature distributions surrounding under-
ground power cable systems in a multilayered homogeneous soil,
comparing Flat-SCMB, Flat-FTB, Trefoil-SCMB, and Trefoil-FTB config-
urations. All configurations have cables at an 80 cm depth, with Flat-
SCMB and Flat-FTB having a distance of 40 cm between cables, and
Trefoil-SCMB and Trefoil-FTB having a distance of 20 cm between
Fig. 5. Temperature distributions for Flat-SCMB in single-layer homogeneous soil.
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
8
Fig. 6. Temperature distributions for Flat-FTB in single-layer homogeneous soil.
Fig. 7. Temperature distributions Trefoil-SCMB in single-layer homogeneous soil.
Fig. 8. Temperature distributions for Trefoil-FTB in single-layer homogeneous soil.
Fig. 9. Temperature distributions for Flat-SCMB in multi-layer homogeneous soil.
Fig. 10. Temperature distributions for Flat-FTB in multi-layer homogeneous soil.
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
9
cables. Figs. 9(a) and 10(a) show maximum temperatures of 82.58 ◦C
and 81.22 ◦C, respectively, for the central conductor due to mutual
thermal effects in Flat-SCMB and Flat-FTB configurations. Figs. 9(b) and
10(b) display the maximum temperature curve on the Y-axis for an
environment depth of 0 to 4.7 m, with the cable simulations in the Y-axis
appearing as a single cable in temperature distribution due to the flat
configuration. The flat configuration allows for simplified analysis and
easier interpretation of temperature patterns and their potential impact
on cable performance. In contrast, Trefoil-SCMB and Trefoil-FTB con-
figurations result in maximum temperatures of 84.64 ◦C (Fig. 11a) and
83.15 ◦C (Fig. 12a), respectively, for the three conductors. The Trefoil
configuration helps to minimize electromagnetic fields and mutual
inductance between the cables. For Flat-FTB (Fig. 10(c)) and Trefoil-FTB
(Fig. 12(c)) configurations, the high thermal conductivity of the FTB
material facilitates efficient heat transfer between cables and sur-
rounding soil, reducing cable temperature rise and preventing over-
heating, ensuring cable reliability and functionality for longer periods.
In all configurations, the heat flux direction is from the cable towards the
surrounding soil due to the cable temperature being higher than the
surrounding soil temperature, with a likely temperature gradient be-
tween the cable and surface ground, as shown in Figs. 9(c), 10(c), 11(c),
and 12(c).
3.3. Cables in a multi-layer non-homogeneous soil
In the multi-layer soil cases, each layer consists of both dry and wet
zones. Using the dry soil thermal conductivity kdry value might not
provide an accurate representation of the actual soil conditions sur-
rounding the power cables. In real-world scenarios, the soil is rarely
completely dry, and the presence of moisture can significantly affect the
soils thermal properties. Moisture in the soil increases its thermal con-
ductivity because water has a higher thermal conductivity than dry soil.
This increase in thermal conductivity can impact heat dissipation and
temperature distribution around the power cables, ultimately affecting
the cables performance and ampacity. By using the moist soil thermal
conductivity kwet value, we account for real-world conditions where the
soil contains some moisture. This approach provides a more accurate
and relevant assessment of the cables thermal performance and its
interaction with the surrounding soil (see Table 1).
Dry zones can form around power cables when the temperature of
the soil layers approaches the maximum allowable cable temperature.
The current flowing through the cables produces heat, which is then
transferred to the surrounding soil. In regions close to the cables, the soil
temperature can rise significantly, resulting in the evaporation of
moisture in the soil. As the moisture evaporates, the soil in the imme-
diate vicinity of the cables can become drier compared to the sur-
rounding soil. This creates areas with reduced moisture content,
commonly known as dry zones. These dry zones lead to changes in the
thermal conductivities of the soil layers surrounding the cables. This
phenomenon occurs because the temperature increase affects the
properties of the soil, including variations in thermal conductivity. In
the case of multi-layered, non-homogeneous soil, we investigate the
variability of thermal conductivity in both the insulator and the soil
layers, as shown in Fig. 13. Based on these considerations, an analysis is
performed to study the temperature distribution around the cable.
Figs. 14–20 shows the temperature distributions surrounding the
underground power cable system in multi-layered, non-homogeneous
soil for Flat-SCMB, Flat-FTB, Trefoil-SCMB, and Trefoil-FTB configura-
tions, respectively.
Fig. 14–20(a and b) show the temperature distributions on the x-axis
and y-axis, respectively. The central conductor achieved maximum
temperatures of 83.65 ◦C in the Flat-SCMB configuration, 82.42 ◦C in the
Flat-FTB configuration, 86.26 ◦C in the Trefoil-SCMB configuration, and
84.89 ◦C in the Trefoil-FTB configuration, and the minimum tempera-
ture achieved is 20.82 ◦C which is the upper of native soil.
Fig. 4 presents the architecture of the adaptive FEM-BPNN, which
comprises both the FEM and BPNN components. Within the FEM
segment, we commence with a geometric model of the cables and their
adjacent environment as described in the following equation:
Figs. 14–20(c) shows the 2D temperature distributions, presenting
isotherm regions. As observed in Fig. 3, the initial surface ground tem-
perature is 20 ◦C, while the soil temperature is 14 ◦C. Notably, this soil
temperature coincides with the initial temperature of the underground
cables. Over time, the temperature difference results in the formation of
a thermal gradient between the regions of high and low temperatures.
This temperature variance leads to a significant change in thermal
conductivity. As the cable’s temperature elevates from 14 ◦C to 90 ◦C,
each layer of the non-homogenous, multi-layered soil exhibits a variance
in thermal conductivity, dependent on its component properties, as
illustrated in Fig. 13(a). Upon closer inspection of Figs. 9–14(c) and
Fig. 11. Temperature distributions for Trefoil-SCMB in multi-layer homogeneous soil.
Fig. 12. Temperature distributions for Trefoil-FTB in multi-layer homogeneous soil.
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
10
Figs. 14–19(c), it becomes apparent that the yellow region, signifying
approximately 60 ◦C, has migrated from the cable to its surroundings.
Furthermore, in Figs. 11–16(c) and Figs. 16–20(c), a new region,
denoted by a light yellow color, has formed as a result of a decrease in
thermal conductivity.
3.4. Adaptive FEM-BPNN model for temperature prediction
In this section, three types of environments surrounding the cables
were considered. The thermal behavior of these environments was
analyzed, and data were extracted based on this analysis to be tested in
this section. In the three environments, the cables were configured in
both flat and trefoil formations with maximum operation load 945 A;
this was considered during the testing of the BPNN-FEM. A dataset
matrix, with a size of 18600 × 8, was extracted from the three envi-
ronments, consisting of 6200 rows from each individual environment.
The eight columns of the dataset matrix consist of surface ground tem-
perature Tsg, distances between cables S, depth of cables H, and backfill
conductivity kbackfill along with an environment code. This code refers
to the thermal conductivities of soil and other parameters that affect
Fig. 13. The effect of an increase in cable core temperature which increases soil temperature on the conductivity of (a) soil layers [10], and (b) XLPE insulation [34].
Fig. 14. Temperature distributions for Flat-SCMB in multi-layered, non-homogeneous soil.
Fig. 15. Temperature distributions for Flat-FTB in multi-layered, non-homogeneous soil.
Fig. 16. Temperature distributions for Trefoil-SCMB in multi-layered, non-homogeneous soil.
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
11
Fig. 17. Temperature distributions for Trefoil-FTB in multi-layered, non-homogeneous soil.
Fig. 18. BPNN training process for (a) single-layer homogeneous soil-Flat configuration, (b) single-layer homogeneous soil-Trefoil configuration, (c) multi-layer
homogeneous soil-Flat configuration, (d) multi-layer homogeneous soil-Trefoil configuration, (e) multi-layer non-homogeneous soil-Flat configuration, and (f)
multi-layer non-homogeneous soil-Trefoil configuration.
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
12
temperature distribution. The code consists of three binary numbers.
The binary numbers for the single-layer homogenous soil environment
are [001]T for flat and [010]T for trefoil, for the multi-layer homogeneous
soil environment with flat and trefoil are [011]T and [100]T, and those for
the multi-layer non-homogeneous soil environment with flat and trefoil
are [101]T and [110]T. This code will increment the number of hidden
neurons from 4 to 7.
In the preprocessing stage of BPNN-FEM, the dataset matrix is
divided into inputs and outputs. The inputs include columns one
through seven of the data matrices, whereas the outputs include the final
column, comprising solely of maximum temperature distribution values.
A subset, accounting for 75 % of the dataset matrix, is selected at
random for the training process and 25 % for the testing process. These
fractions are determined by multiplying the total number of rows in the
data matrix by the prescribed percentage (0.75) and (0.25). A distinct
permutation of row indices is generated to circumvent bias and ensure a
randomized selection. Subsequent preprocessing involves the construc-
tion of a neural network model with seven hidden neurons, with a
maximum iteration limit set at 5000. The activation functions for both
the hidden and output layers are designated as sigmoid functions.
Fig. 18 illustrates the training process results of the FEM-BPNN
model for various configurations. Fig. 18(a) presents the performance
for the single-layer homogeneous soil-flat configuration. Similarly,
Fig. 18(b) and (c) display the performance of the model for the single-
layer homogeneous soil-Trefoil and the multi-layer homogeneous soil-
Flat configurations respectively. The learning behavior of the model is
also demonstrated for the multi-layer homogeneous soil-Trefoil config-
uration in Fig. 18(d), for the multi-layer non-homogeneous soil-Flat
configuration in Fig. 18(e), and for the multi-layer non-homogeneous
soil-Trefoil configuration in Fig. 18(f). In all these scenarios, the model
achieved a near-perfect or perfect linear regression coefficient of
determination R2 and maintained a low Root Mean Square Error
(RMSE), ranging from 0.004 to 0.008. These results collectively confirm
that the FEM-BPNN model adapts well to different environments and
temperatures while ensuring its convergence. This adaptability and
performance are indicative of an ideal model fit, with predictions
aligning perfectly with the actual data. Furthermore, the learning
behavior of the model is depicted through the alterations in weights for
both hidden and output neurons, which essentially steer the learning
process. The diversity in the weights of the hidden layer indicates that
the model operates with high accuracy and can process more data
without weight conflicts.
The testing results corroborate the outcomes from the training and
validation, demonstrating the effectiveness of the model during both the
training and testing process. This is further evidenced by the RMSE
values in the testing process: 0.005 for Fig. 19(a), 0.006 for Fig. 19(b),
0.004 for Fig. 19(c), 0.005 for Fig. 19(d), 0.005 for Fig. 19(e), and 0.008
for Fig. 19(f), as shown in Supplementary Table 1.
This research on FEM-BPNN for underground cable temperature
prediction shows promise due to its novel approach (combining FEM
accuracy with BPNN adaptability), improved accuracy (high R-squared,
low RMSE), and ability to handle complex scenarios (different envi-
ronments, non-homogeneous soils). This has the potential to optimize
cable design and enhance power system operation.
3.5. Results comparison
Table 2 presents the results of conductor temperatures Tc for various
underground power cable environments, configurations, backfill mate-
rials, and burial dimensions. It compares the temperatures for single-
layer and multi-layer homogeneous soil, as well as flat and trefoil con-
figurations, and two types of backfill materials: SCMB and FTB. The
burial dimensions are represented by the distance between adjacent
cables S and cable laying depth H. In the single-layer homogeneous soil,
the highest Tc is observed for Trefoil-SCMB (86.10 ◦C), while the lowest
is for Flat-FTB (82.99 ◦C). In multi-layer homogeneous soil, the highest
Tc is seen in Trefoil-SCMB (84.64 ◦C), and the lowest in Flat-FTB (81.22
◦C). Overall, the FTB material high thermal conductivity (1.54 W/mK)
significantly contributes to heat dissipation in underground power cable
systems, reducing cable temperature and extending their lifespan. This
efficient heat transfer prevents overheating, which can cause thermal
stress and degrade cable performance. The FTB configuration out-
performs the SCMB configuration in heat dissipation and cable over-
heating prevention. In multi-layer homogeneous soil, consider factors
like multilayered soil, FTB layer thermal conductivity, and potential dry
zones for efficient underground power cable systems. Cable arrange-
ment and soil thermal properties influence temperature distribution and
performance. Flat configuration may offer better performance by the
Fig. 18. (continued).
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
13
ease of heat resulting from cable losses into the surrounding soil.
Table 3 compares the results of the study using the FEM with the
Nexans and IEC [36] Standard-based values for cable, soil, electrical,
and usage characteristics, considering a Iload, max of 945 A and a Tsg of 20
◦C. It presents two configurations, Flat and Trefoil, along with their
respective soil conductivity values, burial dimensions, and Tc. The
Nexans IEC Standard-based values indicate a Tc of 90 ◦C for both con-
figurations, with a soil conductivity of 1.17 W/mK in the dry zone and
burial dimensions of S = 20 and H = 100 cm. In contrast, the FEM results
show lower conductor temperatures of 86.19 ◦C and 86.10 ◦C for the Flat
and Trefoil configurations, respectively, with a soil conductivity of 1 W/
mK and burial dimensions of S = 20 and H = 80 cm. This suggests that
the FEM analysis in the study provides more efficient thermal perfor-
mance in both configurations compared to the Nexans IEC Standard-
based values. The last column in Table 2 shows the comparison be-
tween the results obtained in a single-layer and multi-layer homoge-
neous soil, respectively. The total conductor temperatures Tc we
obtained are 480, which depend on the different case values for surface
ground temperatures Tsg, distances between cables S, and the depth of
the cables H. In this study, the multilayer soil achieved low conductor
temperatures, which depend on the high conductivities of the soil layers.
However, in real-world situations, multi-layered soil is considered
complex due to its varying properties and characteristics, which can
significantly impact the performance of underground power cable
systems.
Table 4 compares the temperature results for two different cases:
multi-layer homogeneous soil and multi-layer non-homogeneous soil.
For both cases, the temperature results are provided for Flat-SCMB and
Flat-FTB configurations with the spacing S of 40 cm and burial depth H
of 80 cm, similarly, the temperatures for Trefoil-SCMB and Trefoil-FTB
with the spacing S of 20 cm and burial depth H of 80 cm, the temper-
atures for the central cable and the left and right cables are given for the
conductor, insulator, sheath, and jacket. By comparing the temperature
results of these two cases, it becomes clear that the rapid decrease in
thermal conductivity of the soil layers influences the temperature
gradient, taking this decrease into account results in more realistic
outcomes.
To demonstrate the extensibility of our proposed approaches, we
incorporated all environments. Fig. 20 presents an overall analysis of the
training and testing results of the BPNN-FEM that encompasses all
Fig. 19. BPNN testing process for (a) single-layer homogeneous soil-Flat configuration, (b) single-layer homogeneous soil-Trefoil configuration, (c) multi-layer
homogeneous soil-Flat configuration, (d) multi-layer homogeneous soil-Trefoil configuration, (e) multi-layer non-homogeneous soil-Flat configuration, and (f)
multi-layer non-homogeneous soil-Trefoil configuration.
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
14
environments. In Fig. 20(a), the training results are noteworthy,
achieving an impressive linear regression R2 value of 0.99, paired with a
low RMSE of 0.008. This demonstrates the BPNN-FEM high performance
and accuracy during the training process. On the other hand, Fig. 20(b)
Indicates the BPNN-FEM testing efficacy, it achieved a low RMSE of
0.008, further validating the robustness of the BPNN-FEM in effectively
generalizing its learned patterns to unseen data. Finally, these findings
confirm the uniform high performance of BPNN-FEM in various envi-
ronments, consistently observed throughout both the training and
testing process.
4. Conclusion
This study provided a novel approach for predicting underground
cable temperature using an adaptive FEM-BPNN Model considering
various soil compositions. An application using the proposed model and
comprehensive thermal analysis for a 132 KV underground cable power
system have been carried out. The analysis considered various factors
Fig. 20. Presents the results of the BPNN-FEM analysis, which encompasses all environments, (a) pertains to the training process, while part (b) illustrates the
testing process.
Table 2
Conductor temperature under different conditions at Iload, max = 945 A and 20 ◦C Tsg.
Environments
Configurations
Backfill materials
Burial dimensions
Conductor temperature Tc
Overall results obtained
Single-layer homogeneous soil
Flat
SCMB
S = 40, H = 80 cm
84.31 ◦C
FTB
S = 40, H = 80 cm
82.99 ◦C
Trefoil
SCMB
S = 20, H = 80 cm
86.10 ◦C
FTB
S = 20, H = 80 cm
84.64 ◦C
Multi-layer homogeneous soil
Flat
SCMB
S = 40, H = 80 cm
82.58 ◦C
FTB
S = 40, H = 80 cm
81.22 ◦C
Trefoil
SCMB
S = 20, H = 80 cm
84.64 ◦C
FTB
S = 20, H = 80 cm
83.15 ◦C
Table 3
Comparing study results with Nexans IEC Standard-based for cable, soil, elec-
trical, and usage characteristics atIload, max = 945 A and 20 ◦C Tsg.
Methods
Configurations
Soil
Conductivity
(w/mk)=
(1/ρ)
Burial
dimensions
Conductor
temperature
Tc
IEC Nexans
[35]
Flat
1.17dry zone
S = 20, H =
100 cm
90 ◦C
Trefoil
1.17dry zone
S = 20, H =
100 cm
90 ◦C
FEM in this paper
Flat
1
S = 20, H =
80 cm
86.19 ◦C
Trefoil
1
S = 20, H =
80 cm
86.10 ◦C
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
15
that affect the performance of the cable system, such as soil types and
compositions, cable installation configuration, and thermophysical
properties. Given their significant impact, a precise examination of these
elements was essential. Soil types could be either single-layer or multi-
layer,
and
their
compositions
could
be
homogeneous
or
non-
homogeneous. cable installation configuration pertained to the depth
of the cable burial and the distances between cables. Thermophysical
properties involved variables such as thermal conductivities. The study
goes more in-depth and includes the formation of dry zones and their
effect on heat distribution around cables.
The results from the study clearly illustrated the impact of various
factors on the thermal performance of underground power cables. In
single-layer homogeneous soil, the highest conductor temperature Tc
recorded was 86.10 ◦C for the Trefoil-SCMB configuration, while the
lowest was 82.99 ◦C for the Flat-FTB configuration. In contrast, in multi-
layer homogeneous soil, the highest Tc was 84.64 ◦C in the Trefoil-SCMB
configuration, and the lowest was 81.22 ◦C in the Flat-FTB configura-
tion. Moreover, the study conducted a comparison between multi-layer
homogeneous and non-homogeneous soils. The findings underscored
the significance of considering variable thermal conductivities. A
notable decrease in thermal conductivity in non-homogeneous soil
layers influenced the temperature gradient, leading to an increase in
conductor temperature.
Furthermore, the study presented a novel approach based on FEM,
referred to as BPNN-FEM. This model leverages historical FEM data to
enhance its predictive power, thereby increasing efficiency and accu-
racy. Notably, the BPNN-FEM model is adaptable and refines its internal
parameters in response to new data. BPNN achieved an impressive R2
value of 0.99 and a low RMSE of 0.008 during both training and testing
processes.
The findings from this analysis significantly contribute to under-
standing and improving the performance and reliability of underground
cable power systems. Another key point to note is that in real-world
situations, multi-layered soil is complex, with various properties that
can significantly impact the performance of these systems. Therefore, for
a more accurate assessment, it is essential to consider the changing
characteristics of soil layers and their potential effects on cable
performance.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Abdullah Ahmed Al-Dulaimi: Writing – original draft, Writing –
review & editing, Methodology. Muhammet Tahir Guneser: Concep-
tualization, Methodology, Supervision. Alaa Ali Hameed: Methodol-
ogy, Supervision. Fausto Pedro García M´arquez: Formal analysis.
Osama E. Gouda: Formal analysis, Resources.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence
the work reported in this paper.
Funding
This research has received no specific grant from any funding agency
in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.
Appendix A. Supplementary data
The supplementary information presents the results of maximum temperature calculations for load currents Iload ranging from {805 A:945 A}. This
analysis includes the first two scenarios: cables in a single-layer homogeneous soil and cables in a multi-layer homogeneous soil. Additionally,
Supplementary Fig. 5 displays temperature calculation results based FEM for all considered cases, these are subsequently preprocessed to extract the
maximum values, which are then used as targets for the BPNN. Furthermore, Supplementary Fig. 6 offers a detailed view of Fig. 18 from the main
Table 4
Comparison of temperature results for different cases in multi-layer soil.
Cases
Configurations
Backfill materials
Burial dimensions
Temperatures ◦C
Multi-layer homogeneous soil
Flat
SCMB
S = 40, H = 80 cm
Layers
Central cable
L&R cables
Conductor
Insulator
SheathJacket
82.57
63.726
61.56363.724
81.326
61.38
60.24361.378
Flat
FTB
Conductor
Insulator
SheathJacket
81.213
61.183
58.85561.181
79.92
58.741
57.49658.739
Trefoil
SCMB
S = 20, H = 80 cm
Conductor
Insulator
SheathJacket
84.634
67.6
65.55167.598
83.919
66.21
64.98564.985
Trefoil
FTB
Conductor
Insulator
SheathJacket
83.144
64.8
62.5564.798
82.543
63.614
62.2762.27
Multi-layers non-homogeneous soil
Flat
SCMB
S = 40, H = 80 cm
Layers
Central cable
L&R cables
Conductor
Insulator
SheathJacket
83.643
68.159
66.1268.157
81.804
64.797
63.63264.795
Flat
FTB
Conductor
Insulator
SheathJacket
82.415
65.926
63.73365.924
80.521
62.455
61.17462.453
Trefoil
SCMB
S = 20, H = 80 cm
Conductor
Insulator
SheathJacket
86.248
69.799
67.88969.798
85.713
68.712
67.567.5
Trefoil
FTB
Conductor
Insulator
SheathJacket
84.883
67.153
65.05867.151
84.446
66.242
64.91264.912
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
\nEngineering Science and Technology, an International Journal 51 (2024) 101658
16
paper, focusing on a sub-range for Fig. 6(a)–(f) within the range of {1:500} and for Fig. 6(g) within the range of {1:600}. Finally, we provide
specifications of the cable used in our study in Supplementary Fig. 7. Supplementary Table 1 presents the RMSE results of the testing process for each
case using the BPNN-FEM. The final row of the table provides the RMSE results for the testing process, which is based on training with the complete
dataset from all cases.
Supplementary data to this article can be found online at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jestch.2024.101658.
References
[1] A. Hajatzadeh Pordanjani, S. Aghakhani, M. Afrand, B. Mahmoudi, O. Mahian,
S. Wongwises, An updated review on application of nanofluids in heat exchangers
for saving energy, Energy Convers. Manag. 198 (2019) 111886.
[2] X. Li, G. Shu, H. Tian, Integrating off-design performance in designing CO2 power
cycle systems for engine waste heat recovery, Energy Convers. Manag. 201 (2019)
112146.
[3] F. Salmon, D. Lacanette, M. Duquesne, A. Godin, 3D fluid–structure simulation of
innovative composites for the design and thermal management of electronic
devices, Energy Convers. Manag. 280 (2023) 116824.
[4] S. Zhang, Y. Yan, Thermal performance of latent heat energy storage system with/
without enhancement under solar fluctuation for Organic Rankine power cycle,
Energy Convers. Manag. 270 (2022) 116276.
[5] L.A. de Araujo Passos, P. van den Engel, S. Baldi, B. De Schutter, Dynamic
optimization for minimal HVAC demand with latent heat storage, heat recovery,
natural ventilation, and solar shadings, Energy Convers. Manag. 276 (2023)
116573.
[6] G. Gela, J.J. Dai, Calculation of thermal fields of underground cables using the
boundary element method, IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 3 (4) (1988) 1341–1347.
[7] A. Hiranandani, Calculation of conductor temperatures and ampacities of cable
systems using a generalized finite difference model, IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 6 (1)
(1991) 15–24.
[8] T.A. Haskew, R.F. Carwile, An algorithm for steady-state thermal analysis of
electrical cables with radiation by reduced Newton-Raphson techniques, 9 (1994)
526–533.
[9] G.J. Anders, M. Chaaban, N. Bedard, R.W.D. Ganton, New approach to ampacity
evaluation of cables in ducts using finite element technique, IEEE Trans. Power
Deliv. 2 (4) (1987) 969–975.
[10] P. Ocło´n, P. Cisek, M. Pilarczyk, D. Taler, Numerical simulation of heat dissipation
processes in underground power cable system situated in thermal backfill and
buried in a multilayered soil, Energy Convers. Manage. 95 (2015) 352–370.
[11] E. Kroener, A. Vallati, M. Bittelli, Numerical simulation of coupled heat, liquid
water and water vapor in soils for heat dissipation of underground electrical power
cables, Appl. Therm. Eng. 70 (1) (2014) 510–523.
[12] F. Salata, F. Nardecchia, F. Gugliermetti, A. de Lieto Vollaro, How thermal
conductivity of excavation materials affects the behavior of underground power
cables, Appl. Therm. Eng. 100 (2016) 528–537.
[13] M.A. Hanna, A.Y. Chikhani, M.M.A. Salama, Thermal analysis of power cables in
multi-layered soil. I. Theoretical model, IEEE Trans. Power Delivery 8 (3) (1993)
761–771.
[14] M. Karahan, O. Kalenderli, V. Vikhrenko, Coupled electrical and thermal analysis
of power cables using finite element method, Heat Transfer-Engineering
Applications (2011) 205.
[15] M.S. Al-Saud, M.A. El-Kady, R.D. Findlay, A new approach to underground cable
performance assessment, Electr. Power Syst. Res. 78 (2008) 907–918.
[16] C.C. Hwang, Y.H. Jiang, Extensions to the finite element method for thermal
analysis of underground cable systems, Electr. Power Syst. Res. 64 (2) (2003)
159–164.
[17] Y. Liang, Steady-state thermal analysis of power cable systems in ducts using
streamline-upwind/Petrov-Galerkin finite element method, IEEE Trans. Dielectr.
Electr. Insul. 19 (2012) 283–290.
[18] M.S. Al-Saud, M.A. El-Kady, R.D. Findlay, A novel finite-element optimization
algorithm with applications to power cable thermal circuit design, in: 2007 IEEE
Power Engineering Society General Meeting, IEEE, June 2007, pp. 1-8.
[19] H.J. Li, K.C. Tan, Q. Su, Assessment of underground cable ratings based on
distributed temperature sensing, IEEE Trans. Power Delivery 21 (4) (2006)
1763–1769.
[20] M.Z. Degefa, M. Lehtonen, R.J. Millar, Comparison of air-gap thermal models for
MV power cables inside unfilled conduit, IEEE Trans. Power Delivery 27 (3) (2012)
1662–1669.
[21] S. Maximov, V. Venegas, J.L. Guardado, E.L. Moreno, R. L´opez, Analysis of
underground cable ampacity considering non-uniform soil temperature
distributions, Electr. Power Syst. Res. 132 (2016) 22–29.
[22] R. de Lieto Vollaro, L. Fontana, A. Vallati, Experimental study of thermal field
deriving from an underground electrical power cable buried in non-homogeneous
soils, Appl. Therm. Eng. 62 (2) (2014) 390–397.
[23] F. Salata, F. Nardecchia, A. de Lieto Vollaro, F. Gugliermetti, Underground electric
cables: a correct evaluation of the soil thermal resistance, Appl. Therm. Eng. 78
(2015) 268–277.
[24] H. Lu, F. De Leon, D.N. Soni, W. Wang, Two-zone geological soil moisture
migration model for cable thermal rating, IEEE Trans. Power Delivery 33 (6)
(2018) 3196–3204.
[25] O.E.S. Gouda, G.F.A. Osman, W.A. Salem, S.H. Arafa, Cyclic loading of
underground cables including the variations of backfill soil thermal resistivity and
specific heat with temperature variation, IEEE Trans. Power Delivery 33 (6) (2018)
3122–3129.
[26] O.E. Gouda, A.Z. El Dein, G.M. Amer, Effect of the formation of the dry zone
around underground power cables on their ratings, IEEE Trans. Power Delivery 26
(2) (2010) 972–978.
[27] R. De Lieto Vollaro, L. Fontana, A. Vallati, Thermal analysis of underground
electrical power cables buried in non-homogeneous soils, Appl. Therm. Eng. 31
(2011) 772–778.
[28] C.Z. Fu, W.R. Si, L. Quan, J. Yang, Numerical study of heat transfer in trefoil buried
cable with fluidized thermal backfill and laying parameter optimization, Math.
Probl. Eng. (2019).
[29] C.Z. Fu, W.R. Si, K.K. Fang, J. Yang, Heat transfer simulation and temperature
rapid prediction for trench laying cable, Math. Probl. Eng. (2021) 1–18.
[30] P. Ocło´n, P. Cisek, M. Rerak, D. Taler, R.V. Rao, A. Vallati, M. Pilarczyk, Thermal
performance optimization of the underground power cable system by using a
modified Jaya algorithm, Int. J. Therm. Sci. 123 (2018) 162–180.
[31] P. Ocło´n, The effect of soil thermal conductivity and cable ampacity on the thermal
performance and material costs of underground transmission line, Energy 231
(2021) 120803.
[32] P. Ocło´n, M. Rerak, R.V. Rao, P. Cisek, A. Vallati, D. Jakubek, B. Rozegnał,
Multiobjective optimization of underground power cable systems, Energy 215
(2021) 119089.
[33] C. International, E. Commission, INTERNATIONALE INTERNATIONAL
STANDARD, (2006).
[34] X. Qi, S. Boggs, Thermal and mechanical properties of EPR and XLPE cable
compounds, IEEE Electr. Insul. Mag. 22 (3) (2006) 19–24.
[35] Nexans, HV XLPE insulated XKDCuT, XKDAlT HV XLPE insulated XKDCuT,
XKDAlT, Nexans. (2021) 7–8. https://www.nexans.ch/en/.
A.A. Al-Dulaimi et al.
