energies
Review
Concepts and Methods to Assess the Dynamic Thermal Rating
of Underground Power Cables †
Diana Enescu 1,*
, Pietro Colella 2
, Angela Russo 2
, Radu Florin Porumb 3 and George Calin Seritan 4


Citation: Enescu, D.; Colella, P.;
Russo, A.; Porumb, R.F.; Seritan, G.C.
Concepts and Methods to Assess the
Dynamic Thermal Rating of
Underground Power Cables. Energies
2021, 14, 2591. https://doi.org/
10.3390/en14092591
Academic Editor: Bahman Shabani
Received: 25 March 2021
Accepted: 27 April 2021
Published: 1 May 2021
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
1
Electronics Telecommunications and Energy Department, University Valahia of Targoviste,
130004 Targovis,te, Romania
2
Dipartimento Energia “Galileo Ferraris”, Politecnico di Torino, 10129 Torino, Italy;
pietro.colella@polito.it (P.C.); angela.russo@polito.it (A.R.)
3
Electrical Power Systems Department, University Politehnica of Bucharest, RO-060042 Bucharest, Romania;
radu.porumb@upb.ro
4
Department of Measurements, Electrical Devices and Static Converters, University Politehnica of Bucharest,
RO-060042 Bucharest, Romania; george.seritan@upb.ro
*
Correspondence: diana.enescu@valahia.ro; Tel./Fax: +40-245217683
†
This paper is an extended version of our paper published in the 55th International Universities Power
Engineering Conference (UPEC), Torino, Italy, 1–4 September 2020.
Abstract: With the increase in the electrical load and the progressive introduction of power generation
from intermittent renewable energy sources, the power line operating conditions are approaching the
thermal limits. The deﬁnition of thermal limits variable in time has been addressed under the concept
of dynamic thermal rating (DTR), with which it is possible to provide a more detailed assessment
of the line rating and exploit the electrical system more ﬂexibly. Most of the literature on DTR has
addressed overhead lines exposed to different weather conditions. The interest in the dynamic
thermal rating of power cables is increasing, considering the evolution of computational methods
and advanced systems for cable monitoring. This paper contains an overview of the concepts and
methods referring to dynamic cable rating (DCR). Starting from the analytical formulations developed
many years ago for determining the power cable rating in steady-state conditions, also reported
in International Standards, this paper considers the improvements of these formulations proposed
during the years. These improvements are leading to include more speciﬁc details in the models
used for DCR analysis and the computational methods used to assess the power cable’s thermal
conditions buried in soil. This paper is focused on highlighting the path from the initial theories and
models to the latest literature contributions. Attention is paid to thermal modelling with different
levels of detail, applications of 2D and 3D solvers and simpliﬁed models, and their validation based
on experimental measurements. A salient point of the overview is considering the DCR impact on
reliability aspects, risk estimation, real-time calculations, forecasting, and planning with different
time horizons.
Keywords: thermal model; electric cable; cable rating; dynamic line rating; monitoring; reliability;
review
1. Introduction
The electrical infrastructure is undergoing a modernisation process, with which the
automation of the electrical lines and substations is making new information available on
the operation of the electrical system. The electriﬁcation of the energy system is progres-
sively increasing. However, the replacement of the electrical infrastructure cannot be as
fast as the increase in the electricity demand. The stress on the electrical lines is increasing,
leading to higher temperature peaks that could become close to the line thermal limits
in various time periods of the electrical system operation. Before replacing the electrical
lines, today, it is possible to study better exploitation of the existing lines closer to their
Energies 2021, 14, 2591. https://doi.org/10.3390/en14092591
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
2 of 23
thermal limits. In these cases, the classical limits considered in steady-state conditions
for determining the thermal rating of the lines could become insufﬁcient to develop an
efﬁcient assessment of the line limits. In fact, the thermal rating in steady-state conditions
could become too conservative, in case high temperatures are reached only in a few cases
and with relatively short duration. If this happens, the over-temperatures (higher than the
limits at steady-state) that could occur in the cable insulation for short time intervals would
have a very limited impact on the cable lifetime. Conversely, when excessive temperatures
are reached in abnormal conditions, there could be hot spots at some locations along the
cables. By enhancing the monitoring of power lines (overhead lines and underground
cables) to obtain more information through advanced communication systems, it is possible
to change the power line thermal limit during time depending on the weather conditions.
The thermal limit is important because the line protection system rating could depend
on when and for how long the thermal limit is exceeded. This possibility also enables
better exploitation of the ﬂuctuating renewable generation by studying the operation of
the power cables that connect this type of generation to the grid.
The above concepts have been considered under the general terms dynamic line rating
(DLR) or dynamic thermal rating (DTR), which emphasise the role of considering the
thermal transients in the operation of the electrical systems. According to the IRENA
report [1], in most cases, even relatively low increases of the thermal rating (e.g., from 5%
to 20%) with respect to the steady-state thermal rating could solve many operational issues.
On the transmission network side, DTR can also be used for estimating the actual thermal
state of the conductors by determining the electrical parameters of the power lines [2] or
the mechanical characteristics of steel-reinforced aluminium overhead lines [3]. On the
distribution network side, DTR may have an impact on optimal resource scheduling in
reconﬁgurable microgrids [4]. DTR may be used to keep the conductor temperature in
a line inside the thermal limit in the presence of high renewable distributed generation,
deciding how much distributed generation has to be curtailed in real-time [5]. The study
reported in [6] attempts to perform a quantitative evaluation of the potential beneﬁts
of DTR and a quantitative assessment of the impacts of DTR on the performance of a
distribution network. A distribution network similar to the ones present in Finland has
been considered where overhead and cable lines are considered. The performance of the
distribution network has been assessed with respect to a number of reliability indices
accounting for the expected energy not served and the expected curtailment of generation
from distributed generators.
The literature on DLR addresses, to a large extent, the studies on overhead lines [7].
Nevertheless, the interest in dealing with underground cables and their operation has
recently increased. For this purpose, the relevant terminology dynamic cable rating (DCR)
has been introduced. More generally, considering the electrical infrastructure, similar
aspects involve the power transformers, leading to the dynamic transformer rating (often
indicated as well as DTR—not used below to avoid confusion). The exploitation of dynamic
cable and transformer thermal rating may lead to the reduction of the electricity price by
enabling increased exploitation of renewable resources [8]. Dynamic transformer rating
has been analysed under different climates in [9] or using risk-based procedures [10].
The study of the thermal behaviour of underground cables is signiﬁcant for the
design and manufacturing of the power cables to identify the possibility that abnormal
conditions could occur and determine hot spots, leading to cable failures. In the studies of
electrical system reliability, the effects of power cable failures are studied in particular by
considering the role of the joints constructed when the cable is repaired. The sensitivity of
the cable current limits to the variation of the thermal conditions in time is also considered,
taking into account the parameters used in the thermal model of the soil and the power
cable parameters. Moreover, appropriate formulations of power cable rating are used in
applications such as DCR forecasting and risk estimation [11].
Thermal assessment of an underground power cable is useful to obtain its ampacity,
i.e., its current rating. This parameter represents the maximum electrical current ﬂowing
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
3 of 23
through an operated power cable conductor without exceeding the maximum limits of
its operating temperature [12]. To calculate the power cable ampacity, it is necessary to
evaluate some aspects that can affect the operational buried power cable characteristics.
These aspects are linked to the materials and structure of the power cables, the methods
concerning the installation of the power cables, and surrounding conditions (e.g., soil layers
conﬁguration, soil parameters, backﬁll properties, buried depth, and the trench proﬁle) [13].
Furthermore, the ampacity depends on the operating temperature of the power cable.
Thermal resistivity of soil is the most important technical parameter that affects the
power cable rating. Higher values of soil thermal resistivity result in lower ampacity [14].
In fact, with high soil thermal resistivity, the heat ﬂows from the power cable to the external
environment with more difﬁculty, and the cable temperature remains higher. For reducing
the thermal resistivity, backﬁll material is positioned in the surrounding space around the
cable. The goal is to keep the thermal resistivity low and constant as much as possible, thus
enabling the operators to set up their analyses with a constant parameter. In this way, the
results become less dependent on the variability of the soil properties. For having constant
thermal resistivity, one of the key points is to maintain a constant moisture level in soil, that
is, to ensure thermal stability. In fact, the thermal gradients due to the heat dissipated by
underground power cables move moisture out of the space near the power cable, drying
the soil around the cable [15]. Consequently, the thermal resistivity increases, and the heat
ﬂows away from the cable with more difﬁculty. Again, this causes the cable temperature
to remain higher and increases the possibility of damaging the cable. If the moisture
content is the same, hot soil has lower thermal resistivity than cool soil [16]. Backﬁlls with
sand of low thermal resistivity and high capacity to retain moisture are preferable [17].
However, when using sand, the surrounding soil or appropriate barriers must maintain
high moisture content; otherwise, the thermal resistivity of a dry backﬁll would increase
considerably [18].
An accurate assessment of the heat dissipation in the buried power cable and its
surroundings is useful to obtain better power cable utilisation [19]. The thermal behaviour
of the buried power cable depends on the thermal parameters of the power cable materials,
cable loading conditions, heat-transfer properties of the environment, soil surrounding,
and boundary conditions [20]. The current rating determination requires a thermal analysis
of the power cable, where thermal properties of the power cable materials and soil, the
heat sources in the soil and the cable, and the heat dissipation mechanisms are modelled
and estimated [21].
The cable heating also depends on various exogenous aspects. Among them there are
the variable soil thermal resistivity, the mutual thermal effects in the presence of multiple
cables, and the faults that could occur in the power cables, including their junctions and
terminals. The cable structure is not uniform, and depending on the external conditions,
it is possible to form hot spots, with consequent failures that lead to premature ageing.
Furthermore, the location of the hot spots could change in time, also because of the effect
of changes in the power cable loading and soil resistivity.
This paper is the extended version of the article presented at the 55th Universities
Power Engineering Conference [22]. The main additions include a more detailed view of
the main parameters that affect the power cable ampacity, the indication of advantages, and
drawbacks of the methods used to compute the temperature ﬁeld for buried power cables
and their surroundings. Further details are provided on reliability aspects and power cable
monitoring in real time and on their effects on power cable rating.
In the current version of the paper, the main contributions are:
•
an overview of the thermal aspects relevant to the soil modelling for the assessment
of cable heating;
•
the illustration of power cable modelling for DCR assessment;
•
the categorisation of the solution methods for assessing the thermal characteristics of
power cables;
•
considerations on the DCR impact on distribution system reliability;
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
4 of 23
•
indications on the techniques used for power cable monitoring to support DCR
calculations;
•
the impact of DCR on real-time, short-term, and long-term operation of the distribution
systems.
This paper offers a complementary view with respect to other reviews focused on
overhead lines, such as [7,23]. Section 2 summarises the thermal phenomena relevant to the
DCR studies. Section 3 addresses power cable modelling and DCR computation methods.
Section 4 deals with the DCR impact on power and distribution system operation and
planning. The ﬁnal remarks and the indications for future work are summarised in the
last section.
2. Thermal Phenomena in Soil for Buried Power Cables
The heat-transfer phenomena in the soil and the power cables are conduction, con-
vection, and radiation. In addition, vapour diffusion caused by a vapour density gradient
occurs. In the soil conduction, the heat is transferred from one region of high temperature
to another with a low temperature in a medium, without apparent motion of the molecules
in the medium. Convection is a heat-transfer phenomenon in a ﬂuid due to the relative
motion of the ﬂuid molecules. It is considered that the solid structure of soil is static,
and the convection effects refer only to liquid and vapour transport. Radiation occurs
in a transparent medium (or through air space) by which the heat energy is propagated
as electromagnetic waves. Convection and radiation are essential in ﬂuids (liquids and
gases), while in solids, convection is absent and radiation is negligible [24]. At normal
air temperature, the effect of radiation in the sand is lower than 1% of the overall heat
transfer [25]. In the case of buried power cables, the energy transfer in the insulation
and metallic layers of the cable occurs only through conduction. In the hot regions of the
porous medium, the water evaporates, moves through the pores ﬁlled with gas due to
thermal diffusion, and ﬁnally arrives in the cold regions where it condenses by releasing
its vaporisation latent heat. Furthermore, water ﬂows under the pressure gradient and
the gravity phenomenon [26]. The basic heat-transfer concepts used to assess power cable
rating have been summarised in [21].
The soil thermal conductivity (i.e., the inverse of the thermal resistivity) and the
arrangement of the soil layers are the two main factors that affect the power cable ampacity.
2.1. Soil Thermal Conductivity
The soil thermal conductivity represents the ability of a medium to transfer heat.
According to the standard procedure, soil is considered a homogeneous and uniform
medium with constant thermal conductivity. In this case, the cable ampacity, the tempera-
ture distribution and the soil thermal resistance between the buried power cable and its
surroundings are determined by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) with
the standard IEC 60287-1-1 [27] based on Neher and McGrath’s approximate formulas [28].
In reality, soil is a non-homogeneous medium, being of granular nature and being com-
posed of different organic or mineral materials with different shapes. In the spaces between
the grains, there is a ﬂuid (water or air). The soil composition depends on temperature
(variable in time) and soil moisture content [29]. The soil thermal conductivity depends
on the moisture content inﬂuenced by cable heat dissipation, weather, and season [30].
The soil thermal conductivity rises with the increase in the soil moisture content [25,31].
The soil thermal conductivity range is from 0.4 to 4 W/(m·K) when the water content
modiﬁes [32]. The inﬂuence of soil moisture content changes is not considered when soil
has low permeability [25,33]. In addition, soil has many layers (e.g., organic matter, quartz,
and other materials), and each layer has its own thermal properties that are different from
other layers. De Vries [34] showed that the composition of the soil structure inﬂuences the
thermal conductivity of soil. Farouki et al. [35] speciﬁed that the thermal conductivity of
soil depends on the temperature, water content, natural porosity, mineral composition, and
dry density. Campbell et al. [36] demonstrated that the soil thermal conductivity rises with
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
5 of 23
the temperature in moist soil. In this case, the soil thermal conductivity is not assumed to
be constant. Consequently, knowing the soil water content is very useful for obtaining an
accurate estimation of the soil thermal conductivity [37].
Soil is a porous medium, and soil pores are ﬁlled with water in a liquid state. When
the porosity increases, the pores are saturated with water. Thermal conductivity of a
porous medium at partially and/or totally saturated conditions is a combination of the
thermal conductivity and connectivity of each phase (e.g., water, air, and solid particles),
the geometry of the medium, and the relative volumes [38,39].
The soil layer thermal conductivity reduces at the same time as the temperature
increases [40]. The thermal conductivity of each soil layer is inﬂuenced by temperature,
porosity, and liquid–vapour transport [37]. Soil dries out when the water from the soil
pores evaporates. In this case, soil loses its ability to transfer heat [39].
Due to continuous heating of the operated power cables, the moisture migration away
from the cable is obtained in partially saturated conditions [41]. In this case, there is a
moisture loss in the backﬁll material, leading to the formation of a dry zone with a low
thermal conductivity around the power cable. The dry-zone formation is inﬂuenced by
surrounding conditions, soil permeability, soil type, moisture content, static head, and
retention factor [35]. Soil does not continuously dry out and gets at a stability limit where
the moisture content is reduced (within a particular isotherm of a critical temperature).
Over this limit, the moisture content is kept at the ambient level [42].
The power cable is buried directly in the soil or by replacing the mother soil around
the power cable with the thermal backﬁll materials (e.g., sand or concrete), as in Figure 1.
Alternatively, the power cables are installed in pipes [43]. Thermal backﬁll materials have
signiﬁcantly higher thermal conductivity than the mother soil and can enhance the heat
transfer from the buried power cables. In this case, the power cable temperature does not
exceed a certain limit of the temperature [12,44,45]. In addition, an advantage of proper
backﬁll material is the stability in time of its thermal conductivity [45]. Compared with the
mother soil, the newly backﬁll cable structures developed today assure the better condition
of the heat dissipation, leading to an improvement of the power cable ampacity by about
10–15%. In this case, a decrease in the cross-sectional area of the power cable conductor
could be obtained, leading to the reduction of investment costs [46].
Figure 1. Single cable in backﬁll material and trench cross-section.
Some mathematical models have been proposed in studying the dry-zone phenomena
around the buried power cables [43,44]. Garrido et al. [43] developed a mathematical
model applicable in steady-state and transient state to solve the ampacity and heat diffusion
equation inside the buried cables and surrounding soil. De León and Anders [44] developed
a parametrical model to compute the external thermal resistance and an analysis of how
the cable ampacity is affected by different backﬁlls. They concluded that the backﬁlling is
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
6 of 23
useful for raising the power cable ampacity. In addition, the backﬁll quantity considerably
affects the power cable ampacity.
Therefore, the dry zone results in a growing temperature in the power cable sheath,
which could cause further damage to the insulation of the cable, leading to possible hot
spots [22]. The reduction of hot-spot zones around the buried power cable can be obtained
by using some solutions such as the following:
•
the heat sources insulation around the power cable;
•
mounting a forced cooling system in the hot-spot zone;
•
corrective backﬁll incorporation having high thermal conductivity;
•
the utilisation of the insulating ﬂuid that ﬂows inside the power cable, useful for the
power cable cooling;
•
the forced convection for the ﬂuid ﬂows around the power cable [21,47].
Water cooling is considered the most adopted solution to avoid the soil drying around
the cable [48]. In this situation, the pipes in which the cooling water ﬂows are mounted
parallel with the underground power cables. The heat-transfer analysis must consider the
pipes layout, the soil parameters, the depth where the underground power cable is installed,
and other parameters that are not constant along the power cable. Brakelmann et al. [47]
described the utilisation of gravitational water as a cooling solution. This solution is
adopted when the water cooling cannot reduce the hot-spot zone around the power cable.
A solution used for the ﬁrst time to solve the problem of the hot-spot zone of the
buried power cables was proposed by [49]. They proposed a hydronic asphalt pavement
(HAP) system. The role of the asphalt pavement was to collect the heat from the sun by
using solar absorption. In addition, part of the heat was dissipated due to the conduction,
convection, and thermal emission phenomena. Hence, if the asphalt pavement located
above the power cables is cooled by using the HAP system, the temperature at the hottest
point of the cable can mitigate the hot-spot effect. As a consequence, cable ampacity can be
increased. The presence of ﬁllers with high thermal conductivity in the cable trench is a
further useful means to collect waste heat from the power cables in the HAP system and
increase cable ampacity [50].
The standard IEC 60287-1-1 [27,51] describes the thermal evaluation of the buried
power cables in the presence of the dry-out zone. The standard presents a model where
soil is composed of two zones: a dry zone and a moist soil zone. Each zone has its thermal
conductivity (both considered constant). The boundary between the two zones is found to
be a special isotherm within the medium, which reaches a certain critical water content [52].
The effect of the temperature on the critical water content was presented in [53], where a
theory of moisture movement in porous materials was developed. In addition, the effect
of the temperature on the critical water content was experimentally demonstrated in [54].
Furthermore, Groeneveld et al. [54] speciﬁed that a bigger temperature reduces the soil
ability to retain the water.
Experiments have been reported in the literature to show the effects of the presence of
dry zones around the cable [13,55,56]. Bustamante et al. [55] performed an experimental
and numerical analysis of the medium-voltage underground cable analysing the cable
ampacity in the function of the soil conductivity for different soils (wet, dry, very dry soil)
and cable depth. The values obtained were compared with the values from the standard IEC
60287-1-1 [51]. Ocło´n et al. [56] showed that when completely dry, the thermal conductivity
of thermal soil or backﬁll can decrease by ﬁve times.
2.2. Arrangement of the Soil Layers
Salata et al. [29] analysed how different materials surrounding a buried power cable
affect the thermal conductivity during the heat dissipation generated by the power cable in
the surrounding area. In this case, a dimensionless factor affected by different materials
surrounding the cable was estimated to correct the equation speciﬁed in the Standard IEC
60287-3-1/2 [57]. This correction helps obtain an accurate estimation of the soil thermal
conductivity surrounding the buried power cables. This issue is speciﬁc for the dry soils
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
7 of 23
and when the thermal conductivities of different materials of the layers are low. Ocło´n
et al. [39] presented an analytical formula to obtain the thermal conductivity of each
layer for the multilayered soil. In this case, the multilayered soil thermal conductivity
depends on the temperature. The utilisation of the ﬂuidized thermal backﬁll (FTB) is
good when signiﬁcant changes of thermal conductivity are obtained in the proximity of
the cable. Diaz-Aguiló et al. [58] proposed a model for the soil discretisation using an
RC ladder-type circuit. This circuit is adequate for dynamic soil representation. Soil was
uniformly discretised into layers, and the model parameters are computed by using the
standard equation provided in the IEC standard. In addition, the model based on the soil
discretisation can provide the soil temperature at any point.
The thermal model takes into account the Joule losses and insulation losses. The
inﬂuence of cable power losses is presented in [59]. Due to the Joule losses, the buried
power cables are heated and operate at high temperature. Many publications on the buried
power cable deal with steady-state analysis (Joule losses and the power cable temperature
do not depend on time). In real cases, the Joule losses vary with time. The insulation
losses are important because the heat that is generated in the cable (given by the dielectric,
Joule and ferromagnetic losses) and is not ﬂowing outside the cable causes the temperature
increase in the insulator and results in insulation damage [60].
3. Power Cable Modelling and Computational Methods
3.1. Power Cable Modelling
The structure of an electrical cable depends on the rated voltage and the type of
installation. A single-core cable generic schema is reported in Figure 2, where the main
layers are visible. The conductor is generally composed of several copper or aluminium
wires to reduce the skin effect. The insulation is typically made of crosslinked polyethylene
(XLPE), ethylene propylene rubber (EPR), hard ethylene propylene rubber (HEPR), or
polyvinyl chloride (PVC). The insulation is preceded and followed by two semiconducting
layers (i.e., the conductor shield and the insulation shield, or internal/external semi-
conducting layers), making the electrical ﬁeld radial inside the insulation, thus improving
the power cable performance. The metallic sheath is installed for safety purposes and
is usually made of copper or steel tape and ﬁbres. The armour protects the cable from
mechanical shock and is usually installed in submarine cables. The jacket protects the cable
from mechanical and chemical aggressions.
Figure 2. Equivalent electrical model from electrothermal analogy for a single-core cable, considering the representation of
the parameters with the “T” model.
A very popular approach to implement the thermal cable model is the “thermo-electric
equivalent” (also known as “lumped parameters model”), based on the electrothermal
analogy summarised in Table 1 [61,62]. All materials are characterised by thermal resistivity
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
8 of 23
and capacity interconnected in series and parallel, considering the cable layout. The
current generators represent the equivalent heat sources due to different types of losses
(e.g., dielectric losses and Joule losses inside the conductor), which are usually computed
according to the Standard IEC 60287-1-1 [51]. To improve the model accuracy, skin-effect,
proximity effect, and temperature dependency should be represented since they affect the
electrical resistance values, which have an impact on losses [63].
Table 1. Electrothermal analogy.
Thermal Quantity
Units
Electrical Quantity
Units
Temperature T
K
Electric potential V
V
Absolute zero
0 K
Ground potential
0 V
Heat ﬂow rate
.
Q
W
Electric current I
A
Thermal conductivity k
W/(m·K)
Electric conductivity γ
1/(Ω·m)
Thermal capacity Ct
J/K
Capacitance Ce
F
Thermal resistance Rt
K/W
Electrical resistance Re
Ω
Another way to estimate the electrical resistance of MV cables requires the availability
of synchrophasor data given by phasor measurement units (PMUs) [64]. By modelling heat
ﬂow with a current in the electric analogy, the different node voltages inherently model
the temperatures. Then, the dynamics of the thermal circuit can be represented by using
ordinary differential equations [65,66]. The electrothermal approach can be easily extended
to model several single-core cables or multicore cables, taking into account the mutual
location of the different cores, the presence of further jacketing, and the position of all the
cables inside the ducts.
Detailed representations are possible for the equivalent circuit that models the cable in
its operational conditions. These representations are formulated for the internal part of the
cable and for the outer part that includes the soil and the external ambient. Figure 2 [22]
represents the single core of the cable, which has cylindrical symmetry and includes
isothermal coaxial layers. The equivalent circuit contains a number of interconnected
elements (capacitors, resistors, and generators).
In particular, according to the electrothermal analogy of Table 1, the resistors represent
the thermal resistances, the capacitors represent the thermal capacities and are essential to
model the thermal transients in real operating conditions. The generators represent the
heat sources that originated from different types of losses [67,68]. Between two adjacent
layers, the capacitors and resistors can be connected to form “T” or “Π“ double-bipole
circuit models with lumped parameters. In Figure 2, all components are represented the “T”
circuit model. In some cases, considering the component size and material, it is possible to
neglect some resistances (for example, for the shield and the sheath). Looking at the series
or parallel connection of resistors and capacitors, it is also possible to reduce the number of
corresponding elements that appear in the circuit by summing up any series resistances
and any parallel capacitances.
3.2. Computational Methods
Several methods allow the computation of the temperature of the underground cable
and of the surrounding soil. Below, the main ones are brieﬂy reported, pointing out
their strengths and weaknesses. A general categorisation of the methods is carried out
by considering analytic models, ﬁnite difference methods, ﬁnite element methods, or
simpliﬁed models and equations.
In analytic models, the analytic solution of the diffusion equation, usually provided in
an exponential integral form, allows the computation of the temperature distribution at
any point of the soil in homogeneous systems [69,70]. It requires as input the thermal and
the electrical resistivity of soil, the distance among the cables and their depth of burial, and,
ﬁnally, the electrical losses associated with a current ﬂowing through the cables. Scenarios
with a single cable or with several conductors laid in a nonsymmetric schema can be
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
9 of 23
easily studied. The main strengths of this method are the ease of implementation, the low
computational time, and the absence of convergence criteria. The weakness is that only
homogeneous scenarios can be studied [58,70]: this means, for example, that the effect of
the presence of different materials in the area surrounding the cables cannot be taken into
account. This aspect is a clear simpliﬁcation considering that the soil in the area under
investigation is the result of excavation activity. It can thus have a signiﬁcant impact on the
thermal resistivity of the ground.
The multilayer soil model is another analytical approach, where the underlying idea
is to subdivide the area surrounding the cables into several layers that are modelled
as an equivalent electrothermal lumped circuit [58,61,71]. The temperature distribution
can be easily calculated by solving the circuit. This approach is in line with that of the
IEC 60287-1-1 [51] standard and allows a more faithful representation of the temperature
distribution [58].
A further analytical model to assess the power cable rating takes into account the non-
uniform temperature distribution in the underground space. This temperature distribution
is calculated by using the heat-transfer equations with boundary conditions [72]. The
classical approach requires concentric layers to model the soil, which, of course, is a hard
constraint. A more recent approach overcomes this limitation providing a non-concentric
ladder soil model [71].
The ﬁnite difference method (FDM) is a numerical method that solves the heat diffusion
equation approximating the partial derivatives using ﬁnite differences. Since the length of
the installation is much greater than the lateral dimensions, the heat diffusion equations
are often considered independent of the length coordinate. Within this simpliﬁed approach,
the solution refers to a plane that is perpendicular to the cable length. The FDM requires
a discretisation of the cable and of the surrounding soil, considering cylindrical and
rectangular coordinates for the mesh grid [43,73]. One of the inconveniences that may arise
is the need to consider a quite large simulation domain around the cables to guarantee that
the furthermost points in soil keep their original temperature (i.e., constant temperature
isotherms at points far enough from the cables). A variable step discretisation in the mesh
building process can be considered so that only the relevant areas can be modelled with a
ﬁne mesh, while for the remaining parts, a coarse mesh can be adopted [43].
The ﬁnite element method (FEM) is another important numerical method particularly
popular in the ﬁeld [74]. In addition, in this case, the domain of the model (2D or 3D) is
meshed. Since the shape of the mesh elements is chosen considering the geometry of the
objects, FEM can be considered more ﬂexible than FDM. The mesh generation is often a
thorny step in the simulation process, especially when objects characterised by different
dimensions coexist. Thereby, simulating a cable with a small cross-section buried in a large
piece of land could be complicated.
When the system is represented by using a large number of connected nodes, a crucial
issue appears for the creation of a nonregular mesh aimed at reducing the computational
burden and improving the effectiveness of the result representation. However, only FEM
allows the simulation of complex scenarios, such as those characterised by the presence
of multiple circuits [75], ground surface heat [76], cable trench proﬁle [77], concrete and
asphalt cover [78–80], and mixtures for bedding in a multilayered soil represented in
2D [39]. In steady-state, the FEM minimises a given functional, subject to a set of boundary
constraints [81]. Some tools used for two-dimensional (2D) analysis are FEMM [82],
FLUX [75], COMSOL with 2D model [83], and ANSYS [55,84]. The numerical model
used in the FEM tool developed in [39] contains some nonlinear functions of temperature
and is solved by using an approach based on the Newton–Raphson method.
Some FEM software (e.g., COMSOL multiphysics and ANSYS) allows multiphysics
simulations for determining the dynamic thermal rating of electrical cables [85,86]. For
example, the thermal and the electrical equations of the model are solved together in the
simulation process, beneﬁting the simulation accuracy. In this case, the current distribution
in the three-phase current system on the screen and the soil can be calculated considering
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
10 of 23
mutual coupling and skin effects. For submarine cables or overhead lines, the ﬂuid dy-
namics equations can also be added to model the effects of water and air. Unfortunately,
multiphysics analysis usually increases simulation complexity. In fact, considering mul-
tiphysics domains often implies multiscaling, which means that the combined physical
models have signiﬁcant differences in space or time scales [87]. For example, in cable
current evaluation, an increase in complexity could be due to the different mesh density
requirements of the combined physical models: calculation of eddy currents in the thin
solid screen requires several layers of ﬁnite elements through the thickness of the screen,
while a single layer is sufﬁcient for heat-transfer calculation. A multiphysics approach
should be carried out, especially when a high simulation accuracy justiﬁes the increment
of the simulation complexity. Otherwise, simplifying assumptions can be made without
impacting the results [87–89].
Recently, three-dimensional (3D) analysis has been used, obtaining results such as the
ones reported from the tool FLUX 3D [77], in which the computation time has been quite
long even when short cables are considered. Long computation time has also been indicated
for the 3D model used in [90] for low-voltage power cables. A high computational burden is
needed for obtaining detailed results in 3D FEM analysis, and this is the main limiting factor
of FEM. Moreover, FEM cannot provide information to determine the relation between
the temperature of the power cable and the various parameters that appear in the thermal
circuit model [60].
Simpliﬁed models and the corresponding equations have been used for representing
various phenomena that determine temperature variations. The use of simpliﬁed models
has the objective of avoiding the use of FEM and provides reasonable results that can
be compared with the FEM solutions. Even though today’s computational power makes
it possible to solve highly meshed structures by using FEM, the research on simpliﬁed
models gives interesting contributions with relatively accurate results in speciﬁc cases.
In the example reported in [58], soil is represented with multiple layers by using an
equivalent circuit that adopts non-uniform discretisation to calculate the results of the
thermal transients. By using this model, the results show that the use of ﬁve layers can be
suitable for providing very close results with respect to the application of FEM. Similarly,
in [71], the soil layers are represented by using non-concentric models. In [84], starting from
the soil thermal resistance found on the basis of the Standard IEC 60287, the application
of some corrective coefﬁcients has been validated with respect to the results found by
using 2D FEM. Signiﬁcant reduction of the computational time with respect to 3D FEM has
also been reported in [91] with the use of 3D multiconductor cell analysis, considering a
three-core armoured cable with helically wound wires, where, however, no thermal model
has been included. The 3D power cable and joint model presented in [92] has provided
satisfactory results in comparison with measured values.
4. DCR Impact on Power and Distribution System Operation and Planning
The next subsections describe the integration of DCR in the solution of various op-
eration and planning problems formulated to analyse power and distribution systems.
Calculation of the current rating, reliability aspects, and the effects of power cable moni-
toring are ﬁrst considered. Then, proposals regarding DCR are categorised according to
different time frames. While the real-time methods have been mostly studied with the aim
to optimise the asset utilisation, it is possible to apply the concept of dynamic rating, also
considering a short-term and long-term operation. In the latter time horizon, planning or
design problems are usually addressed. It is worth noting that these methods enable better
operation and the upgrading of the sizing procedures for new scenarios.
4.1. Calculation of the Current Rating
Starting from known values of the soil thermal resistivity, the power cables are usually
sized by considering the static cable rating (SCR), as recommended by the IEC technical
Standard IEC 60287-1-1 [51]. In the SCR, the current-carrying capacity (or ampacity) of the
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
11 of 23
cable is calculated as the continuous current carried by the cable, such as the continuous
conductor temperature being equal to the maximum allowable conductor temperature
which depends on the insulating material (for example, this temperature is 90 ◦C for most
cables). The SCR is a conservative value since steady-state conditions are assumed to
be maintained for the useful life of the cable. Starting from the cable and surrounding
thermal model, the Standard IEC 60287-1-1 provides the equations for the current rating
with constant load, considering all losses arising in the power cable (Joule losses, dielectric
losses, armour and screen losses, etc . . . ). For a buried cable (without soil drying out) or
for cables placed in air, the static cable rating Ir is:
Ir =
s
∆T −Wd[0.5Rt1 + n(Rt2 + Rt3 + Rt4)]
Re[Rt1 + n(1 + λ1)Rt2 + n(1 + λ1 + λ2)(Rt3 + Rt4)]
(1)
being:
∆T: difference between the maximum allowable conductor temperature and the
ambient temperature;
Wd: dielectric losses for the insulation surrounding the conductor;
Rt1: thermal resistance between one conductor and the sheath;
Rt2: thermal resistance between the sheath and the armour;
Rt3: thermal resistance of the external serving of the cable;
Rt4: thermal resistance between the cable surface and the surrounding medium;
λ1: ratio of losses in the metal sheath to total losses in all conductors;
λ2: ratio of losses in the armouring to total losses in all conductors;
Re: electric resistance of the conductor evaluated at the maximum allowable conductor
temperature;
n: number of cable conductors.
The Standard IEC 60287-1-1 determines the current rating without exceeding the max-
imum allowable temperature by applying the Neher–McGrath method [28]. Generalised
techniques are introduced in [93] to take into account the soil thermal instability in the
calculations based on [28].
The particular problem of deriving the power cable rating equations when the tem-
perature limits are imposed at points different from the power cable conductor external
surface is addressed in [70]. The imposition of these limitations is mainly motivated by
environmental reasons. The point at which the temperature limit is imposed can be located
on the external surface of the power cable, or at a speciﬁed location in the surrounding envi-
ronment. The presence of this additional limit corresponds to impose further constraints to
the power cable sizing. This limit has to be also imposed for calculating the solutions under
dynamic conditions. The sizing of power cables used to export power from offshore wind
farms is addressed in [70] to go beyond the static rating as in the Standard IEC 60287-1-1
and the rating based on the daily cycle as in [51,94].
Another crucial aspect to consider for determining the current rating is the possible
uncertainty with which the parameters are known. Different uncertainties could appear,
e.g., in the thermophysical soil properties, as well as in the electrical load evolution during
time. In the latter case, the uncertainty affects the Joule losses in the power cable [95].
Transient tolerance analysis of cable rating is presented in [96], where interval mathematics
is used for the calculations. An online DCR developed for understanding the real-time
limits of power-transfer capability, relevant for the user participation in energy and ancillary
services markets, is described in [97]. A review on possible ways for increasing the power
cable rating is presented in [67].
4.2. Reliability Aspects
For the purpose of reliability analysis, power cables are treated as repairable compo-
nents. The underground cables are repaired with the construction of joints, in a period of
some hours. However, for reliability analysis, the time horizon is based on years, meaning
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
12 of 23
the repair time is relatively short in this respect. In addition, the number of cable failures
in one year is generally low; hence, the mean time between failures is much higher than
the repair time. This supports the hypothesis that failures are rare events in the lifetime of
power cables [98].
With respect to the physical determination of power cable reliability, a supplementary
cause for faults is the corrosion stage of the metallic screen shield. This aspect may lead to
further degradation of cable reliability. High local electrical ﬁelds may cause deterioration
of the power cable, especially in the joints when imperfections are introduced during the
joint construction [99]. In this case, partial discharges could occur, and the defect could be
exacerbated, in particular at high temperatures [100].
A central point in assessing the overall cable reliability is the ability to fast pinpointing
the failures on cables. The fast location of cable faults is paramount for ensuring the
least possible interruption time for downstream consumers, directly impacting electricity
distribution costs. The current practice addresses the fault location with a four-step ap-
proach, structured as a gradual development of diagnosis, preconditioning, pre-location,
and pinpointing [101].
The position of the hot spots and of the joints are the main information needed for
setting up the determination of the cable ageing with the use of proper models. After their
construction, the joints are weak points for the power cable structure, because they intro-
duce local electrical and thermal resistances. Moreover, the joints worsen the mechanical
performance of the cable, especially when the cables are subject to the repair process after
the occurrence of the next failures. For these reasons, the use of a constant value for the
failure rate in reliability calculations is insufﬁcient. The outcomes of the service restoration
process can be taken into account by using probability distributions of the failure rate that
depend on the number of cable joints [102]. Variable representations of the failure rate after
the occurrence of repair events, which consider higher failure rates and ageing in reliability
analysis, are discussed in [103].
The concerns regarding cable reliability were recognised at the European level and
subsequently addressed through interdisciplinary funded research activities. In [104], the
ARTEMIS BRITE-EURAM program has been presented, which achieved its main objectives
of developing a diagnostic methodology. This methodology has been used to assess both
the susceptibility of polymeric cable insulation to electrical ageing and the insulation state
at any chosen time to evaluate the remaining lifetime of operating power cables.
The data-driven forecasting approach shown in [105] addresses the remaining life of
power cables. The objective is to predict when the cumulative effect of the relevant features
that have been chosen to represent the issues under analysis exceeds a speciﬁed threshold.
In another data-driven method [102], a special emphasis was put on evaluating the relia-
bility of cables with a supplementary aspect of performing a secondary categorisation of
cables by considering them repairable or nonrepairable components. The nested algorithm
considers the Weibull parametric proportional hazard model (PHM) for analysing and
modelling the failure rate of individual cables. The advantage of the PHM method is its
independence of additional measurements on the cables, being concentrated on the histori-
cal cable parameters and failure data. It has been proved that previous conclusions about
the reliability of repairable cables were incorrect due to the inaccurate methods approach.
In [106], the reliability methodology that considers the age of cables was expressed in three
categories: planning techniques, end-of-life modelling, and replacement planning. Cable
ageing indicators are used in [107] by considering different situations, one for normal
conditions, and another one in emergency conditions in which there is a higher risk of
failures. In short emergency periods, higher cable rating may be considered for the power
cables, calculating the cable rating increase through the assessment of the risk of damaging
the cable because of worsening its thermal conditions [108].
The existing reporting on ageing inﬂuence on cables reliability is scarce, and the scope
of reliability modelling is to increase the level of conﬁdence for future failure behaviour.
By considering the existence of two failure states, namely repairable and non-repairable
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
13 of 23
failures, the current literature concentrates on repairable failures to the disadvantage of
end-of-life failures. The reliability evaluation of power system components takes into
consideration the bathtub curve. This curve is composed of three phases, which are char-
acteristic to the early-life (high but decreasing failure rate), useful-life (low and constant
failure rate), and end-of-life phase (highly increasing failure rate) [109]. When the useful-
life period is considered, the exponential distribution function is used for modelling time
to failure and time to repair. Therefore, the time-homogenous Markov process is applied
for reliability assessment. By applying the parametric approach, different probabilistic
distribution models are tested, and goodness-of-ﬁt tests are used for calculating the param-
eters from the ‘best ﬁt’ model. The modelling of historical failure data is performed using
parametric methods, such log-normal or Weibull, to represent the end-of-life failure over
the exponential function because of the lack-of-memory property [110].
4.3. Cable Monitoring
The concerns regarding power cable reliability were recognised at the European
level and subsequently addressed through interdisciplinary funded research activities. In
the ARTEMIS BRITE-EURAM program, the main innovation is the combined approach
of using advanced modelling, theoretical evaluation, and practical testing on real-ﬁle
cables used in electrical power systems [104]. This approach was a ﬁrst and led to a fully
integrated diagnosis system. For AC electrical power cables, a new model was elaborated
for power cable ageing, using advanced (sub) microscopic techniques to monitor and
identify relevant ageing markers. This new approach led to new ideas for the future
redeﬁnition of installation systems and technologies.
The temperature is the most signiﬁcant variable for DCR. Temperatures are measured
by using thermocouples installed at different locations along the power cable. One can
apply several practices to monitor real-time temperature, all of them having advantages
and disadvantages. These practices include the placement of optical ﬁbre sensors within
the structure of the cable, the location of optical ﬁbres at the external side of the cable, or
taking a reference temperature when no current ﬂows in the cable. In all these cases, there
is no certainty that the positions where the thermocouples are installed are close to the
actual location of the hot spots. Thereby, it is difﬁcult to identify the occurrence of critical
conditions at speciﬁc points of the cable.
The approach used to obtain the real-time temperature proﬁle for different points
along the cable is denoted as distributed temperature sensing (DTS) [111]. DTS consists of
placing a number of optical ﬁbre-based sensors in the structure of the power cable [112].
The analysis of the Raman backscatter light in the optical ﬁbre provides the information
to draw the temperature proﬁles. The temperature data are used by supervisory control
and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, in which the power cable operation is monitored
to provide useful information to identify possible critical points of the power cable or to
assist the determination of the effects of the current ﬂowing in the cable.
DTS applications include various challenges [62]. Among them, the cost of the cable
increases when the optical ﬁbre is introduced in the cable jacket. Furthermore, the time and
cost of making a cable joint increase when jointing the cable has to include the presence of
the optical ﬁbre. When the optical ﬁbre is located inside the cable, its structure is helical,
meaning the length of the ﬁbre is higher than the length of the cable. An alternative
solution is to position the optical ﬁbre in the external part of the cable. In this case, the
determination of the soil temperature becomes easier, and the cable repair can be simpliﬁed.
However, this case has the drawback that the monitored points are far from the points of
the conductor or joints, leading to less accurate temperature measurements.
DTS is also applied to extremely high-voltage (EHV) power cables. In this case, the
retroﬁtting of optical ﬁbres for DTS, together with the related monitoring along the overall
length of the cable, is not a practical solution [113]. The solution identiﬁed is to install
optical ﬁbres in a predeﬁned hot-spot area with known characteristics or to locate dedicated
probes for the thermal analysis of temperature and properties of the soil in preselected
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
14 of 23
points. This allows conﬁrming the outcomes of speciﬁc calculations and verifying that the
cable operation does not exceed the design limits. The example shown in [114] presents the
results of monitoring an AC submarine cable operated at 52 kV. More indications on how to
establish a system for real-time distributed temperature sensing associated with a SCADA
system are included in [115]. Further details on DTS requirements, implementations, and
applications are presented in [112].
An increase in temperature monitoring effectiveness may be obtained by carrying
out a dedicated temperature monitoring to be considered a reference in the conditions in
which there is no current ﬂowing in the cable. Starting from this reference, the temperature
variations along the power cable when the current ﬂows can be detected and used for
assessing the temperature data when the cable is under operation.
The advances in electrical power cable manufacturing are providing cables with
optical ﬁbre embedded, which is a signiﬁcant advance in temperature monitoring by
means of optical ﬁbre sensors. This is the best-suited technology for long-range monitoring,
with high accuracy (2–3 ◦C at 30 km with 0.5–1 m resolution), and it relies on Brillouin time
domain analysis, as well as Raman distributed temperature sensing [116]. The underlying
principle through which these two mechanisms are operating is the extraction of physical
parameters from backscattered light, making them extremely accurate at identifying weak
points in cables at long distances.
However, the downsize of these measurement techniques is the fact that they are
relying upon static frequency scanning, which is not suitable to follow the dynamic nature
of cable operation [117]. There is an array of solutions for this issue, among which are
the use of multimode ﬁbre used for simultaneous measurements [118], sweep-free and
slope-assisted conﬁgurations [119], and optical unipolar pulse coding schemes [120].
The evolution in cable monitoring is an inherent request of both utilities and customers
to improve the energy supply service, enhancing it for the needs of the smart grid. These
needs range from constant variability of energy ﬂows following market signals [121] to
increase power capacity of cables for solving feeding adequacy-related issues [122].
In the smart grid, the system operator must use hardware- and software-monitoring
means that ensure the ability to accurately identify the weak points subject to failure for
predictive reliability. This reduces operating costs, with consequent reduction of energy
bills at end-customers.
The integration of underground cables into the smart grid generates a large database,
resulting from continuous and comprehensive monitoring [123]. The resulting database is
embedded in a multipurpose-built computing environment, used for automatic control
of energy assets [124]. The database is analysed by means of machine-learning tech-
niques [125], in order to continuously feed a human (or automated) grid operator with
deep knowledge and situational awareness regarding cable operation, condition, and
ability to respond to a sudden increase in power ﬂows.
4.4. Real Time DCR
Real-time monitoring of the cable loading current and the ambient conditions allows
determining the cable real-time ratings by imposing the maximum permissible conductor
temperature according to the insulating material covering the conductor. The calculations
of the real-time ratings aim at improving the utilisation of cables, also lowering security
margins. Cable loading currents and ambient conditions are available when monitored
(this is the case when the lines are equipped with DTS) or can be accurately estimated
when not monitored. Proper estimation techniques have to be established [126].
Real-time cable rating systems have been proposed to perform calculations of steady-
state and emergency cable ratings in real-time in [127]. While the objective is to maximise
the utilisation of existing cables maintaining the same level of reliability, the calculation
of ratings is based on the IEC technical standards [51]. The moisture content of the cable
surroundings is considered in [61], where the thermal resistivity and speciﬁc heat of the
cable surroundings are calculated in function of the actual moisture content and the cooling
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
15 of 23
effect during rainy weather is taken into account. The focus of the contents in [128] is the
estimation of the soil thermal parameters considering the measurements of DTS (cable
loading current and temperature of the cable surface) over several days; an optimisation
problem is combined with the application of FEM.
To improve the real-time thermal rating of power cables, more accurate and some-
times approximate models for the transient temperature calculation are needed. Signiﬁcant
are the models proposed in [58] and [129], aimed at accurately calculating the transient
temperature to enrich a DTS system used for real-time DCR. In particular, a representa-
tion of the soil is proposed [58], and the presence of other cables in proximity has been
considered and modelled [129]. An improved thermal model proposed for the transient
temperature calculation in [66] is based on the approximate solution for the Van Wormer
coefﬁcient, treated as a time-varying variable. To better represent the soil thermal response,
a non-concentric soil layer model is proposed in [71]. Borbuev et al. [126] address the
unbalanced loading of the cables and propose an adequate thermal model of cable and soil
to handle unbalances. The models are implemented to evaluate the real-time cable ratings
and exploit a thermal map of a distribution network.
4.5. Short-Term DCR
Reference [130] addresses the forecasting of the DCR on intraday and day-ahead
time-scales with rigorous modelling of the cable–soil thermal–hydraulic dynamics; this is
an important point because the thermal transfer between the cable and the soil (and, as
a consequence, the conductor temperature) is inﬂuenced by the dynamic characteristics
of the cable surrounding (i.e., temperature of the soil where the cable is buried, thermal
resistivity, and thermal diffusivity of the soil) is affected by the dynamic soil characteristics.
In [130], there is the proposal of two methods applied to DCR for intraday and day-ahead
forecasting. The ﬁrst method is a physical–statistical method, while the second method is
data-driven. In particular, with respect to the ﬁrst method, forecasts of the soil temperature
at the upper layer, precipitation, and cable current are obtained by applying a support
vector regression-based method. First, the environmental conditions are forecast, and
then, the dynamic characteristics of the soil are assessed through the thermal–hydraulic
model of the soil. Finally, the thermal model of a buried cable proposed by IEC standards
for transients provides the forecasting of the DCR at the target hour, in such a way the
conductor temperature results less than the allowable value. With respect to the second
method, the environmental conditions are forecast based on available measurements of
the environmental conditions and on available weather forecasts of precipitation and soil
temperature at the upper layer, and the dynamic characteristics of soil are determined by
applying the thermal–hydraulic model. Then, the historical DCR is determined by applying
the thermal model of a buried cable for transient conditions. Finally, the regression model
on historical DCR values allows forecasting the DCR at the target hour.
The references [131,132] consider the export cables for offshore wind farms, and
temperature risk assessment is carried out with a probabilistic approach. When a cable
exporting the generation of offshore wind farms is considered, the uncertainty of cable
current is linked to the uncertainty in the wind power generation. If the cable loading is
greater than the cable rating and the temperature is less than the maximum admissible
value, power curtailments are not necessary. If the thermal risk hours are estimated in
advance, power curtailments can be limited with the obvious advantage of maximising
wind energy transportation.
The study reported in [131] proposes the estimation of the difference between the
maximum allowable temperature and the cable temperature 6, 12, and 24 h ahead; in
this way, it is possible to maximize the power ﬂowing from the offshore wind farm to
the landfall. In particular, power curtailments are decided based on a risk index. In
the probabilistic procedure outlined in [131], at the ﬁrst step, the export cable current is
estimated in the hours ahead (6, 12, or 24 h) by considering the historical data of wind
speed and the power curve. The temperature of the conductor is, then, determined by
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
16 of 23
applying a ﬁnite difference analysis of the cable, and the risk of exceeding the maximum
allowable temperature is calculated. In [132], the estimation of cable temperatures 6 h
ahead allows the evaluation of the probability of the overheating of the cable.
4.6. Long-Term DCR
Planning or designing of cable systems can be addressed considering the concepts of
dynamic cable rating. For these problems, cable loading currents and ambient conditions
have to be assigned over a long period of time.
As described in Section 4.1, the static cable rating is determined by assuming a con-
stant load and considering the losses such as ohmic losses, dielectric losses, armour, screen
and sheath losses, etc. To select the cable section, the static cable rating is compared with the
cable operating current. In particular conditions, however, if this sizing method is applied,
under-utilised components can be included in the system when the currents are character-
ized by a high variability. As a consequence, when the worst case is assumed, the static
current rating is a conservative value, and the capacity of the cable can be underestimated.
An example is the export cable connecting wind farms (already considered in Section 4.5)
characterised by “low capacity factors and high-power production variability” [133].
Reduced nominal values in assigned conditions may result when diverse sizing
methods are considered. In fact, with respect to traditional thermal sizing, it is likely to
obtain an increase in the current rating and a decrease in the cable cross-section [134].
Let us consider the sizing of the offshore export cables. The variability of cable loading
can be taken into account, and the procedure for the cyclic ratings for cables, suggested by
IEC standards [95,135], can be applied. In particular, the mentioned IEC standards propose
a cyclic rating factor, and the formulas are provided for a single cable and for groups of
equally loaded identical cables; the cyclic rating factor is, then, multiplied by the maximum
allowable current during the daily cycle. The sizing is aimed, also in this case, at meeting
the constraint on the maximum allowable temperature. The typical feature of the daily
cycle affects the value of the cyclic rating factor; on the contrary, the magnitudes of the
currents do not inﬂuence the factor [95,135]. In [136], the export cable of offshore wind
farms are sized by applying a procedure based on IEC 60853-2 [95], and the equivalent
cyclic load proﬁle is obtained from historical wind speed measurements. The approach
presented in [137], instead, is based on a dynamic cyclic load proﬁle, consisting, in the
worst case, of equivalent stepwise load proﬁles. When the daily load variations cannot
be used, the dynamic rating equation is based on a yearly load cycle that includes long
durations of the peak load, followed by long durations of no load.
The export cable of offshore wind farms is taken into consideration also in [138] that
proposes an iterative dynamic cable rating method applied to three-core XLPE submarine
cables. In the iterative method, an important point is the thermal cable analysis that
follows the indications of IEC 60853-2 [95] and includes a thermal ladder network to
determine the transient temperature response. The dynamic cable rating is carried out
with an iterative procedure: at ﬁrst, the section of the cable is selected, and the cable
current and the parameters of the thermal ladder network are assigned; then, the conductor
temperature is determined. The iterative procedure ends when the chosen cable has a
conductor temperature less than the maximum allowable temperature.
Reference [133] provides an extensive review of the sizing methods for export cables
to connect offshore wind farms to the landfall, including the methods based on DCR.
5. Final Remarks
In this paper, the conceptual aspects and developments concerning the dynamic cable
rating have been addressed by reviewing various literature contributions. These contribu-
tions have recalled the historical evolution of methods and formulations, also indicating the
developments in progress. The classical conceptualisation based on the representation of
heat-transfer phenomena has evolved to incorporate more detailed aspects for non-uniform
soil, moisture migration, and dry zones. More reﬁned mathematical models have been
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
17 of 23
progressively deﬁned to study hot spots and the ways to mitigate the related issues. The
power cable modelling has been developed mainly for enabling implementations in FEM
solvers. For these solvers, the computation time is one of the limiting factors that makes
the transition from 2D to 3D models particularly challenging.
Moreover, computation time limits the creation of time-dependent models. It is
possible to simulate the power cable behaviour considering the variation in operating
and external conditions. Even though the thermal phenomena have a relatively slow
evolution in time with respect to the electrical phenomena, the time horizon considered for
simulations has to be sufﬁciently long to track the thermal evolution of the power cable
operation. One of the main objectives of tracking the thermal and electrical phenomena is
to predict the occurrence of failures in the power cable in such a way as to enable preventive
maintenance. An interesting line of research is the development of analytical ladder soil
models, which seem to be able to provide results comparable with FEM in a shorter time.
Currently, the implemented models are mainly 2D and consider only constant currents. A
comprehensive framework platform to simulate more complex scenarios is one of the next
goals in the ﬁeld. Extended cable monitoring is required to provide more data for model
validation. However, being impossible to monitor all the points in the cable, the choice of
the points to be monitored is crucial, together with establishing a sound simulation model
to represent the overall cable structure with the surrounding environment. Other tools
based on risk analysis, used to estimate the maximum allowable temperature, assist the
decision maker in setting up strategies to reduce the curtailment of intermittent generation
from renewable energy sources. Data analysis tools with the integration of physical and
statistical models are available and have to be improved to enhance the accuracy of DCR
forecasting at different time scales. The aspects reported above indicate the vast interest
and timeliness of the DCR research in progress.
Further research in the ﬁeld of DCR can be addressed in several directions. A common
theme deserving further deepening is the accurate modelling of single cables as well
multiple cable systems; the inclusion of the rigorous representation of the surrounding
(including moisture migration phenomena) improves the temperature estimation.
Since multiple sources of uncertainty are recognised among the data, more studies
and new methodologies to calculate the DCR accounting for uncertainty will represent a
step forward to improve the process of decision making and/or the real-time applications.
Reliability may have a decisive inﬂuence on the future development of smart grids,
which are foreseen to have far lower interruption time for the users and at a similar energy
price with traditional power systems. In this context, the underground cables must be
adequately monitored and included in a far-reaching smart grid forecasting environment.
This environment must take into account a dynamic database of characteristics, such as
wind speed, solar irradiance, air and ground temperature, load variation, battery state of
charge, load-shedding algorithms agreed with the customer, and elasticity economically in-
centivised by the system operator or a local energy market. More accurate DCR forecasting
methodologies, if developed, will allow the prediction of the thermal rating in advance
reliably; in this research area, probabilistic forecasting of DCR can be elaborated.
An important aspect for future cable rating is the introduction of more electric vehicle
charging stations, which will be built, for the sake of saving costs, over the existent power
systems infrastructure. This situation may lead to a further strain of existing cables for
increased power ﬂows. This will have a signiﬁcant inﬂuence on the deployment of DCR
methodologies aimed at reducing risks, maintaining high degrees of service reliability.
New perspectives are also opened by extreme weather phenomena (like heat waves
and cold waves), whose probability of occurrence has increased in recent years. As known,
these events could affect power systems operation, and proper methodologies for DCR can
be applied to minimise their impact and reduce the system vulnerability.
Finally, the application of dynamic rating concepts to further power system equipment
should be considered, and it will open new prospects in the planning and operation of
electric power systems. In particular, the application of these methodologies, in the frame
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
18 of 23
of modern power systems, will facilitate the integration of renewable sources such as wind
or solar generations and avoid or reduce inefﬁcient curtailment actions.
Author Contributions: Conceptualisation, D.E., P.C., A.R., R.F.P. and G.C.S.; methodology, D.E.,
P.C., A.R., R.F.P. and G.C.S.; formal analysis, D.E., P.C., A.R., R.F.P. and G.C.S.; investigation, D.E.,
P.C., A.R., R.F.P. and G.C.S.; writing—original draft preparation, D.E., P.C., A.R., R.F.P. and G.C.S.;
writing—review and editing, D.E., P.C., A.R., R.F.P. and G.C.S.; visualisation, D.E., P.C., A.R., R.F.P.
and G.C.S.; supervision, D.E., P.C., A.R., R.F.P. and G.C.S.; project administration, D.E., R.F.P. and
G.C.S., funding acquisition, D.E., P.C., A.R., R.F.P. and G.C.S. All authors have read and agreed to the
published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Acknowledgments: D.E., R.F.P. and G.C.S. acknowledge that this article has been prepared in the
framework of a collaboration referring to the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation
programme established under grant agreement No. 774407.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
Nomenclature
DLR
Dynamic Line Rating
DTR
Dynamic Thermal Rating
DTS
Distributed Temperature Sensing
EPR
Ethylene Propylene Rubber
FDM
Finite Difference Method
FEM
Finite Element Method
EHV
Extremely High Voltage
EV
Electric Vehicles
HEPR
Hard Ethylene Propylene Rubber
IEC
International Electrotechnical Commission
MV
Medium Voltage
PHM
Proportional Hazard Model
PMU
Phasor Measurement Unit
PVC
Polyvinyl Chloride
RMS
Root Mean Square
SCADA
Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition
SCR
Static Cable Rating
XLPE
Crosslinked Polyethylene
References
1.
IRENA. Innovation Landscape Brief: Dynamic Line Rating; International Renewable Energy Agency: Abu Dhabi, United Arab
Emirates, 2020.
2.
Coletta, G.; Vaccaro, A.; Villacci, D. A review of the enabling methodologies for PMUs-based dynamic thermal rating of power
transmission lines. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2017, 152, 257–270. [CrossRef]
3.
Morozovska, K.; Naim, W.; Viafora, N.; Shayesteh, E.; Hilber, P. A framework for application of dynamic line rating to aluminium
conductor steel reinforced cables based on mechanical strength and durability. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2020, 116, 1–11.
[CrossRef]
4.
Dabbaghjamanesh, M.; Kavousi-Fard, A.; Mehraeen, S. Effective scheduling of reconﬁgurable microgrids with dynamic thermal
line rating. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2019, 66, 1552–1564. [CrossRef]
5.
Coletta, G.; Laso, A.; Jónsdóttir, G.M.; Manana, M.; Villacci, D.; Vaccaro, A.; Milano, F. On-Line Control of DERs to Enhance the
Dynamic Thermal Rating of Transmission Lines. IEEE Trans. Sustain. Energy 2020, 11, 2836–2844. [CrossRef]
6.
Safdarian, A.; Degefa, M.Z.; Fotuhi-Firuzabad, M.; Lehtonen, M. Beneﬁts of Real-Time Monitoring to Distribution Systems:
Dynamic Thermal Rating. IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 2015, 6, 2023–2031. [CrossRef]
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
19 of 23
7.
Karimi, S.; Musilek, P.; Knight, A.M. Dynamic thermal rating of transmission lines: A review. Renew. Sust. Energy Rev. 2018, 91,
600–612. [CrossRef]
8.
Rocha, O.D.A.; Morozovska, K.; Laneryd, T.; Ivarsson, O.; Ahlrot, C.; Hilber, P. Dynamic rating assists cost-effective expansion of
wind farms by utilising the hidden capacity of transformers. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2020, 123, 106188. [CrossRef]
9.
Daminov, I.; Prokhorov, A.; Caire, R.; Alvarez-Herault, M.C. Assessment of dynamic transformer rating, considering current and
temperature limitations. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2021, 129, 106886. [CrossRef]
10.
Bracale, A.; Carpinelli, G.; de Falco, P. Probabilistic risk-based management of distribution transformers by dynamic transformer
rating. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2019, 113, 229–243. [CrossRef]
11.
Liu, S.; Kopsidas, K. Risk-Based Underground Cable Circuit Ratings for Flexible Wind Power Integration. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv.
2021, 36, 145–155. [CrossRef]
12.
Ocło´n, P.; Cisek, P.; Matysiak, M. Analysis of an application possibility of geopolymer materials as thermal backﬁll for under-
ground power cable system. Clean Technol. Environ. Policy 2020, 23, 869–878. [CrossRef]
13.
Chatzipanagiotou, P.; Chatziathanasiou, V.; de Mey, G.; Wi˛ecek, B. Inﬂuence of soil humidity on the thermal impedance, time
constant and structure function of underground cables: A laboratory experiment. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2017, 113, 1444–1451.
[CrossRef]
14.
Alwan, S.H.; Jasni, J.; Ab Kadir, M.Z.A.; Aziz, N. Factors Affecting Current Ratings for Underground and Air Cable. Int. J. Energy
Power Eng. 2016, 10, 1422–1428.
15.
Anders, G. Rating of Electric Power Cables in Unfavorable Thermal Environment; IEEE Press: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2005.
16.
Czapp, S.; Ratkowski, F. Effect of soil moisture on current-carrying capacity of low-voltage power cables. Przegl ˛ad Elektrotechniczny
2019, 95, 154–159. [CrossRef]
17.
Gouda, O.E.; Abdel-Aziz, A.M.; Refale, R.A.; Matter, Z. Experimental study for drying-out of soil around underground power
cables. Eng. Sci. 1992, 9, 23–40.
18.
Bates, C.; Malmedal, K.; Cain, D. Cable Ampacity Calculations: A Comparison of Methods. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2016, 52,
112–118. [CrossRef]
19.
De Lieto Vollaro, R.; Fontana, L.; Vallati, A. Experimental study of thermal ﬁeld deriving from an underground electrical power
cable buried in non-homogeneous soils. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2014, 62, 390–397. [CrossRef]
20.
Al–Saud, M.S.; El-Kady, M.A.; Findlay, R.D. A new approach to underground cable performance assessment. Electr. Power Syst.
Res. 2008, 78, 907–918. [CrossRef]
21.
Enescu, D.; Colella, P.; Russo, A. Thermal Assessment of Power Cables and Impacts on Cable Current Rating: An Overview.
Energies 2020, 13, 5319. [CrossRef]
22.
Enescu, D.; Russo, A.; Porumb, R.; Seritan, G. Dynamic Thermal Rating of Electric Cables: A Conceptual Overview. In Proceedings
of the 55th International Universities Power Engineering Conference (UPEC), Torino, Italy, 1–4 September 2020.
23.
Erdinç, F.G.; Erdinç, O.; Yumurtacı, R.; Catalão, J.P.S. A Comprehensive Overview of Dynamic Line Rating Combined with Other
Flexibility Options from an Operational Point of View. Energies 2020, 13, 6563. [CrossRef]
24.
Carslaw, H.C.; Jaeger, J.C. Conduction of Heat in Solids; Oxford University Press: Oxford, UK, 1986.
25.
Rees, S.W.; Adjali, M.H.; Zhou, Z.; Davies, M.; Thomas, H.R. Ground heat transfer effects on the thermal performance of
earth-contact structures. Renew. Sust. Energy Rev. 2000, 4, 213–265. [CrossRef]
26.
Bouddour, A.; Auriault, J.L.; Mhamdi-Alaoui, M. Heat and mass transfer in wet porous media in presence of evaporation-
condensation. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 1988, 41, 2263–2277. [CrossRef]
27.
International Electrotechnical Commission. IEC 60287-1-1: Calculations of the Continuous Current Rating of Cables (100% Load
Factor); International Electrotechnical Commission: Geneva, Switzerland, 1982.
28.
Neher, J.H.; McGrath, M.H. The calculation of the temperature rise and load capability of cable systems. Trans. Am. Inst. Elect.
Eng. Power Appl. Syst. Part III 1957, 76, 752–772. [CrossRef]
29.
Salata, F.; Nardecchia, F.; Gugliermetti, F.; Vollaro, A. How thermal conductivity of excavation materials affects the behavior of
underground power cables. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2016, 100, 528–537. [CrossRef]
30.
Hamed, S.; Behrooz, V. A probabilistic approach for optimal power cable ampacity computation by considering uncertainty of
parameters and economic constraints. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. Mar. 2019, 106, 432–443.
31.
Peters-Lidard, C.D.; Blackburn, E.; Liang, X.; Wood, E.F. The effect of soil thermal conductivity parameterisation on surface
energy ﬂuxes and temperatures. J. Atmos. Sci. 1998, 55, 1209–1224. [CrossRef]
32.
Abu-Hamdeh, N.H. Thermal properties of soils as affected by density and water content. Biosyst. Eng. 2003, 86, 97–102. [CrossRef]
33.
Van den Brink, G.J.; Hoogendoorn, C.J. Ground water ﬂow heat losses for seasonal heat storage in the soil. Sol. Energy 1983, 30,
367–371. [CrossRef]
34.
De Vries, D. Thermal properties of soils. Phys. Plant. Environ. 1963, 1, 57–109.
35.
Farouki, O.T. Thermal properties of soils. Series Rock Soil Mech. 1986, 11, 1–136.
36.
Campbell, G.S.; Jungbauer, J., Jr.; Bidlake, W.; Hungerford, R. Predicting the effect of temperature on soil thermal conductivity.
Soil. Sci. 1994, 158, 307–313. [CrossRef]
37.
Kroener, E.; Vallati, A.; Bittelli, M. Numerical simulation of coupled heat, liquid water and water vapor in soils for heat dissipation
of underground electrical power cables. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2014, 70, 510–523. [CrossRef]
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
20 of 23
38.
Ghanbarian, B.; Daigle, H. Thermal conductivity in porous media: Percolation-based effective-medium approximation. Water
Resour. Res. 2016, 52, 295–314. [CrossRef]
39.
Ocło´n, P.; Cisek, P.; Pilarczyk, M.; Taler, D. Numerical simulation of heat dissipation processes in underground power cable
system situated in thermal backﬁll and buried in a multilayered soil. Energy Convers. Manag. 2015, 951, 352–370. [CrossRef]
40.
Gouda, O.E.; El Dein, A.Z.; Amer, M.G. Effect of the formation of the dry zone around underground power cables on their rating.
IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2011, 26, 972–978. [CrossRef]
41.
Anders, G.J.; Radhakrishna, H.S. Power cable thermal analysis with consideration of heat and moisture transfer in the soil. IEEE
Trans. Power Deliv. 1988, 3, 1280–1288. [CrossRef]
42.
Lu, H.; de León, F.; Soni, D.N.; Wang, W. Two-Zone Geological Soil Moisture Migration Model for Cable Thermal Rating. IEEE
Trans. Power Deliv. 2018, 33, 3196–3204. [CrossRef]
43.
Garrido, C.; Otero, A.F.; Cidrás, J. Theoretical model to calculate steady-state and transient ampacity and temperature in buried
cables. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2003, 18, 667–678. [CrossRef]
44.
De León, F.; Anders, G.J. Effects of backﬁlling on cable ampacity analysed with the ﬁnite element method. IEEE Trans. Power Del.
2008, 23, 537–543. [CrossRef]
45.
Ocło´n, P.; Bittelli, M.; Cisek, P.; Kroener, E.; Pilarczyk, M.; Taler, D.; Rao, R.V.; Vallati, A. The performance analysis of a new
thermal backﬁll material for underground power cable system. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2016, 108, 233–250. [CrossRef]
46.
Kim, Y.S.; Kim, J.; Cho, D.S. Implementation of optimised backﬁll materials for underground electric power cables. J. Porous
Media 2014, 17, 831–840. [CrossRef]
47.
Brakelmann, H.; Anders, G.J.; Cherukupalli, S. Underground cable hot spot. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2020, 35, 592–599. [CrossRef]
48.
Tobin, B.; Zadehgol, H.; Ho, K.; Welsh, G.; Prestrud, J. A water cooling system to improve ampacity in underground urban
distribution cables. In Proceedings of the IEEE/PES Transmission and Distribution Conference and Exhibition, Dallas, TX, USA,
21–24 May 2006; pp. 432–437.
49.
Klimenta, D.; Tasi, D.; Jevti, M. The use of hydronic asphalt pavements as an alternative method of eliminating hot spots of
underground power cables. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2020, 168, 114818. [CrossRef]
50.
Klimenta, D.; Tasi´c, D.; Jevti´c, M. An alternative method of increasing the transmission performance of a conventional 110 kV
cable line. J. Energy Technol. 2019, 12, 1–10.
51.
International Electrotechnical Commission. IEC 60287-1-1: Electric Cables—Calculation of the Current Rating—Part 1-1: Current
Rating Equations (100% Load Factor) and Calculation of Losses—General; International Electrotechnical Commission: Geneva,
Switzerland, 2006.
52.
Hruška, M.; Clauser, C.; De Doncker, R.W. Inﬂuence of dry ambient conditions on performance of underground medium-voltage
DC cables. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2019, 149, 1419–1426. [CrossRef]
53.
Philip, J.R.; de Vries, D.A. Moisture movements in porous materials under temperature gradients. Trans. Am. Geophys. Union
1957, 38, 222–232. [CrossRef]
54.
Groeneveld, G.J.; Snijders, A.L.; Koopmans, G.; Vermeer, J. Improved method to calculate the critical conditions for drying out
sandy soils around power cables. IEEE Proc. 1984, 131, 42–53. [CrossRef]
55.
Bustamante, S.; Mínguez, R.; Arroyo, A.; Manana, M.; Laso, A.; Castro, P.; Martinez, R. Thermal behaviour of medium-voltage
underground cables under high-load operating conditions. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2019, 156, 444–452. [CrossRef]
56.
Ocło´n, P.; Pob˛edza, J.; Walczak, P.; Cisek, P.; Vallati, A. Experimental Validation of a Heat Transfer Model in Underground Power
Cable Systems. Energies 2020, 13, 1747. [CrossRef]
57.
International Electrotechnical Commission. IEC 60287-3-1/2 Electric Cables e Calculation of the Current Rating e Sections on Operating
Conditions; International Electrotechnical Commission: Geneva, Switzerland, 1999.
58.
Diaz–Aguiló, M.; de León, F.; Jazebi, S.; Terracciano, M. Ladder–Type Soil Model for Dynamic Thermal Rating of Underground
Power Cable. IEEE Power Energy Technol. Syst. J. 2014, 1, 21–30. [CrossRef]
59.
Kovaˇc, N.; Sarajˇcev, I.; Poljak, D. Nonlinear-coupled electric-thermal modeling of underground cable systems. IEEE Trans. Power
Deliv. 2006, 21, 4–14. [CrossRef]
60.
Kocar, I.; Ertas, A. Thermal Analysis for Determination of Current Carrying Capacity of PE and XLPE Insulated Power Cables
Using Finite Element Method. In Proceedings of the 12th IEEE Mediterranean Electrotechnical Conference (Melecon 2004),
Dubrovnik, Croatia, 12–15 May 2004.
61.
Olsen, R.S.; Anders, G.J.; Holboell, J.; Gudmundsdottir, U.S. Modelling of dynamic transmission cable temperature considering
soil-speciﬁc heat thermal resistivity, and precipitation. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2013, 28, 1909–1917. [CrossRef]
62.
Bascom, E.C., III; Clairmont, B. Considerations for advanced temperature monitoring of underground power cables. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE PES T&D Conference and Exposition, Chicago, IL, USA, 14–17 April 2014.
63.
Sugihara, H.; Funaki, T. Analysis on Temperature Dependency of Effective AC Conductor Resistance of Underground Cables for
Dynamic Line Ratings. In Proceedings of the Smart Grids, IEEE 21st International Conference on High Performance Computing
and Communications—IEEE 17th International Conference on Smart City—IEEE 5th International Conference on Data Science
and Systems (HPCC/SmartCity/DSS), Zhangjiajie, China, 10–12 August 2019.
64.
Singh, R.S.; Cobben, S.; Gibescu, M.; van den Brom, H.; Colangelo, D.; Rietveld, G. Medium Voltage Line Parameter Estimation
Using Synchrophasor Data: A Step Towards Dynamic Line Rating. In Proceedings of the IEEE Power & Energy Society General
Meeting (PESGM), Portland, OR, USA, 5–10 August 2018.
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
21 of 23
65.
Bontempi, G.; Vaccaro, A.; Villacci, D. Power cables’ thermal protection by interval simulation of imprecise dynamical systems.
IEEE Proc. Gener. Transm. Distrib. 2004, 151, 673–680. [CrossRef]
66.
Wang, P.; Ma, H.; Liu, G.; Han, Z.Z.; Guo, D.M.; Xu, T.; Kang, L.Y. Dynamic Thermal Analysis of High-Voltage Power Cable
Insulation for Cable Dynamic Thermal Rating. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 56095–56106. [CrossRef]
67.
Benato, R.; Colla, L.; Dambone Sessa, S.; Marelli, M. Review of high current rating insulated cable solutions. Electr. Power Syst.
Res. 2016, 133, 36–41. [CrossRef]
68.
Arias Velásquez, R.M.; Mejía Lara, J.V. New methodology for design and failure analysis of underground transmission lines. Eng.
Fail. Anal. 2020, 115, 104604. [CrossRef]
69.
Anders, G.J. Rating of Electric Power Cables; McGraw–Hill: New York, NY, USA, 1997.
70.
Anders, G.J.; Brakelmann, H. Rating of Underground Power Cables with Boundary Temperature Restrictions. IEEE Trans. Power
Deliv. 2018, 33, 1895–1902. [CrossRef]
71.
Lux, J.; Czerniuk, T.; Olschewski, M.; Hill, W. Non-Concentric Ladder Soil Model for Dynamic Rating of Buried Power Cables.
IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2021, 36, 235–243. [CrossRef]
72.
Maximov, S.; Venegas, V.; Guardado, J.L.; Moreno, E.L.; López, R. Analysis of underground cable ampacity considering non–
uniform soil temperature distributions. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2016, 132, 22–29. [CrossRef]
73.
Haskew, T.A.; Carwile, R.F.; Grigsby, L.L. An algorithm for steady-state thermal analysis of electrical cables with radiation by
reduced Newton-Raphson techniques. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 1994, 9, 526–533. [CrossRef]
74.
Nahman, J.; Tanaskovic, M. Determination of the current carrying capacity of cables using the ﬁnite element method. Electr.
Power Syst. Res. 2002, 61, 109–117. [CrossRef]
75.
Desmet, J.; Putman, D.; Vanalme, G.; Belmans, R.; Vandommelent, D. Thermal analysis of parallel underground energy cables. In
Proceedings of the CIRED 2005—18th International Conference and Exhibition on Electricity Distribution, Turin, Italy, 6–9 June
2005; pp. 1–4.
76.
Nahman, J.; Tanaskovic, M.; Tanaskovic, M. Calculation of the loading capacity of high voltage cables laid in close proximity to
heat pipelines using iterative ﬁnite-element method. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2018, 103, 310–316. [CrossRef]
77.
Benato, R.; Dambone Sessa, S.; Forzan, M.; Marelli, M.; Pietribiasi, D. Core laying pitch–long 3D ﬁnite element model of an AC
three–core armoured submarine cable with a length of 3 meter. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2017, 150, 137–143. [CrossRef]
78.
Hwang, C.C.; Chang, J.J.; Chen, H.Y. Calculation of ampacities for cables in trays using ﬁnite elements. Electr. Power Syst. Res.
2000, 54, 75–81. [CrossRef]
79.
Vaucheret, P.; Hartlein, R.A.; Black, W.Z. Ampacity Derating Factors for Cables Buried in Short Segments of Conduit. IEEE Trans.
Power Deliv. 2005, 20, 560–565. [CrossRef]
80.
Demoulias, C.; Labridis, D.P.; Dokopoulos, P.S.; Gouramanis, K. Inﬂuence of metallic trays on the ac resistance and ampacity of
low-voltage cables under non-sinusoidal currents. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2008, 78, 883–896. [CrossRef]
81.
Al–Saud, M.S. Assessment of thermal performance of underground current carrying conductors. IET Gener. Transm. Distrib. 2011,
5, 630–639. [CrossRef]
82.
Jenkins, L.; Fahmi, N.; Yang, J. Application of dynamic asset rating on the UK LV and 11 kV underground power distribution
network. In Proceedings of the 52nd International Universities Power Engineering Conference (UPEC), Heraklion, Greece, 28–31
August 2017; pp. 1–6.
83.
Snajdr, J.; Lucak, J.; Vostracky, Z.; Kozeny, J. Dynamic rating of supply cables of a stabilising furnace. In Proceedings of the 2014
15th International Scientiﬁc Conference on Electric Power Engineering (EPE), Brno-Bystrc, Czech Republic, 12–14 May 2014; pp.
507–510.
84.
Salata, F.; Nardecchia, F.; de Lieto Vollaro, A.; Gugliermetti, F. Underground electric cables a correct evaluation of the soil thermal
resistance. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2015, 785, 268–277. [CrossRef]
85.
COMSOL Multiphysics. Comsol Multi-Physics User Guide (Version 4.3 a); COMSOL: Burlington, MA, USA, 2012.
86.
Ansys. Guide, ANSYS FLUENT User. Release 14.0; ANSYS. Inc.: Canonsburg, PA, USA, 2011.
87.
Korovkin, N.; Greshnyakov, G.; Dubitsky, S. Multiphysics approach to the boundary problems of power engineering and their
application to the analysis of load-carrying capacity of power cable line. In Proceedings of the Electric Power Quality and Supply
Reliability Conference (PQ), Rakvere, Estonia, 11–13 June 2014; pp. 341–346.
88.
Dubitsky, S.; Greshnyakov, G.; Korovkin, N. Reﬁnement of underground power cable ampacity by multiphysics FEA simulation.
Int. J. Energy 2015, 9, 12–19.
89.
Dubitsky, S.; Greshnyakov, G.; Korovkin, N. Comparison of ﬁnite element analysis to IEC-60287 for predicting underground cable
ampacity. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Energy Conference (ENERGYCON), Leuven, Belgium, 4–8 April 2016; pp. 1–6.
90.
Delgado, F.; Renedo, C.J.; Ortiz, A.; Fernández, I.; Santisteban, A. 3D thermal model and experimental validation of a low voltage
three-phase busduct. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2017, 110, 1643–1652. [CrossRef]
91.
Benato, R.; Dambone Sessa, S. A New Multiconductor Cell Three–Dimension Matrix–Based Analysis Applied to a Three–Core
Armoured Cable. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2018, 33, 1636–1646. [CrossRef]
92.
Bragatto, T.; Cresta, M.; Gatta, F.M.; Geri, A.; Maccioni, M.; Paulucci, M. A 3-D nonlinear thermal circuit model of underground
MV power cables and their joints. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2019, 73, 112–121. [CrossRef]
93.
Bates, C.; Malmedal, K.; Cain, D. How to Include Soil Thermal Instability in Underground Cable Ampacity Calculations. In
Proceedings of the IEEE Industry Applications Society Annual Meeting, Portland, OR, USA, 2–6 October 2016.
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
22 of 23
94.
International Electrotechnical Commission. IEC 60853-2: Calculation of the Cyclic and Emergency Current Rating of Cables. Part 2:
Cyclic Rating of Cables Greater Than 18/30 (36) kV and Emergency Ratings for Cables of All Voltages; International Electrotechnical
Commission: Geneva, Switzerland, 1989.
95.
Foty, M.S.; Anders, G.J.; Croall, S.C. Cable environment analysis and the probabilistic approach to cable rating. IEEE Trans. Power
Deliv. 1990, 5, 1628–1633. [CrossRef]
96.
Villacci, D.; Vaccaro, A. Transient tolerance analysis of power cables thermal dynamic by interval mathematic. Electr. Power Syst.
Res. 2007, 77, 308–314. [CrossRef]
97.
Huang, S.H.; Lee, W.J.; Kuo, M.T. An Online Dynamic Cable Rating System for an Industrial Power Plant in the Restructured
Electric Market. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2007, 43, 1449–1458. [CrossRef]
98.
Carpaneto, E.; Chicco, G.; Porumb, R.; Roggero, E. Probabilistic representation of the distribution system restoration times. In
Proceedings of the CIRED 2005–18th International Conference and Exhibition on Electricity Distribution, Turin, Italy, 6–9 June
2005.
99.
Calcara, L.; D’Orazio, L.; Della Corte, M.; Di Filippo., G.; Pastore, A.; Ricci, D.; Pompili, M. Faults Evaluation of MV Underground
Cable Joints. In Proceedings of the International Annual Conference (AEIT), Florence, Italy, 18–20 September 2019; pp. 1–6.
100. Calcara, L.; Sangiovanni, S.; Pompili, M. MV underground cables: Effects of soil thermal resistivity on anomalous working
temperatures. In Proceedings of the International Annual Conference (AEIT), Cagliari, Italy, 20–22 September 2017; pp. 1–5.
101. Laughton, M.A.; Warne, D.F. Electrical Engineer’s Reference Book, 16th ed.; Elsevier: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 2002;
pp. 31/35–31/40.
102. Nemati, H.M.; Sant’Anna, A.; Nowaczyk, S.; Jürgensen, J.H.; Hilber, P. Reliability evaluation of power cables considering the
restoration characteristic. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2019, 105, 622–631. [CrossRef]
103. Gill, Y. Development of an electrical cable replacement simulation model to aid with the management of aging underground
electric cables. IEEE Electr. Insul. Mag. 2011, 27, 31–37. [CrossRef]
104. Garros, B. Ageing and reliability testing and monitoring of power cables: Diagnosis for insulation systems: The ARTEMIS
program. IEEE Electr. Insul. Mag. 1999, 15, 10–12. [CrossRef]
105. Liu, S.; Wang, Y.; Tian, F. Prognosis of Underground Cable via Online Data-Driven Method with Field Data. IEEE Trans. Ind.
Electron. 2015, 62, 786–7794. [CrossRef]
106. Buhari, M. Reliability Assessment of Ageing Distribution Cable for Replacement in Smart Distribution Systems. Ph.D. Thesis,
Faculty of Science and Engineering, The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK, June 2016.
107. Kopsidas, K.; Liu, S. Power Network Reliability Framework for Integrating Cable Design and Ageing. IEEE Trans. Power Syst.
2018, 33, 1521–1532. [CrossRef]
108. Clements, D.; Mancarella, P.; Ash, R. Application of time-limited ratings to underground cables to enable life extension of network
assets. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Probabilistic Methods Applied to Power Systems (PMAPS), Beijing,
China, 16–20 October 2016.
109. Allan, R.N.; Billinton, R. Reliability Evaluation of Power Systems; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 1996.
110. Billinton, R.; Allan, R.N. Reliability Evaluation of Engineering Systems: Concepts and Techniques; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg,
Germany, 1992.
111. Singh, K. Cable monitoring solution—Predict with certainty. In Proceedings of the 12th IET International Conference on
Developments in Power System Protection (DPSP), Copenhagen, Denmark, 31 March–3 April 2014.
112. Cherukupalli, S.; Anders, G.J. Distributed Fiber Sensing and Dynamic Rating of Power Cables; Wiley: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2020.
113. Marazzato, H.; Barber, K.; Jansen, M.; Barnewall, G. Cable Condition Monitoring of Improve Reliability. In Proceedings of the
TechCon Asia-Paciﬁc, OLEX, Sydney, Australia, 2004. Available online: https://www.nexans.co.nz/NewZealand/2012/22_1.04
.2004%20-%20Cable%20Condition%20Monitoring.pdf (accessed on 29 April 2021).
114. Cherukupalli, S.; Adapa, R.; Bascom, E.C., III. Implementation of Quasi-Real-Time Rating Software to Monitor 525 kV Cable
Systems. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2019, 34, 1309–1316. [CrossRef]
115. Cherukupalli, S.; Anders, G.J. How Can Temperature Data Be Used to Forecast Circuit Ratings? In Distributed Fiber Optic Sensing
and Dynamic Rating of Power Cables; Cherukupalli, S., Anders, G.J., Eds.; Wiley: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2020; Chapter 9, pp. 129–165.
116. Muanenda, Y.; Oton, C.J.; di Pasquale, F. Application of Raman and Brillouin Scattering Phenomena in Distributed Optical Fiber
Sensing. Front. Phys. 2019, 7, 155. [CrossRef]
117. Chen, D.; Liu, Q.; Fan, X.; He, Z. Distributed ﬁber-optic acoustic sensor with enhanced response bandwidth and high signal-to-
noise ratio. J. Lightw. Technol. 2017, 35, 2037–2043. [CrossRef]
118. Wang, D.; Cheng, B.; Jin, B.; Wang, Y.; Zhang, M.; Liu, X.; Bai, Q. Remote simultaneous measurement of liquid temperature and
refractive index using ﬁber-optic spontaneous Raman scattering. IEEE Sens. J. 2019, 19, 10513–10518. [CrossRef]
119. Zhou, D.; Dong, Y.; Wang, B.; Jiang, T.; Ba, D.; Xu, P.; Zhang, H.; Lu, Z.; Li, H. Slope-assisted BOTDA based on vector SBS and
frequency-agile technique for wide-strain-range dynamic measurements. Opt. Express 2017, 25, 1889–1902. [CrossRef]
120. Yang, Z.; Li, Z.; Zaslawski, S.; Thévenaz, L.; Soto, M.A. Design rules for optimizing unipolar coded Brillouin optical time-domain
analyzers. Opt. Express 2018, 26, 16505–16523. [CrossRef]
121. Manusov, V.Z.; Khasanzoda, N.; Atabaeva, L.S. Two-Way Energy Flow Optimization Based on Smart Grid Concept. In Proceedings
of the 2018 International Conference on Industrial Engineering, Applications and Manufacturing (ICIEAM), Moscow, Russia,
15–18 May 2018.
\nEnergies 2021, 14, 2591
23 of 23
122. Shekhar, A.; Kontos, E.; Ramírez-Elizondo, L.; Rodrigo-Mor, A.; Bauer, P. Grid capacity and efﬁciency enhancement by operating
medium voltage AC cables as DC links with modular multilevel converters. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2017, 93, 479–493.
[CrossRef]
123. Jianming, Q.; Jizhen, L.; Yuebin, H.; Jianhua, Z. Use of real-time/historical database in Smart Grid. In Proceedings of the 2011
International Conference on Electric Information and Control Engineering, Wuhan, China, 15–17 April 2011.
124. Cartes, D.; Chow, J.H.; McCaugherty, D.; Widergren, S. (Eds.) Smart Grid Research: Computing—IEEE Smart Grid Vision for
Computing: 2030 and Beyond; IEEE Publishing: New York, NY, USA, 2003.
125. Huo, Y.; Prasad, G.; Lampe, L.; Leung, C.M.V. Smart-Grid Monitoring: Enhanced Machine Learning for Cable Diagnostics. In
Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE International Symposium on Power Line Communications and its Applications (ISPLC), Prague,
Czech Republic, 3–5 April 2019.
126. Borbuev, A.; Wang, W.; Lu, H.; Jazebi, S.; de Leon, F. Investment Deferral of Feeder Upgrades Revealed by System-Wide
Unbalanced Dynamic Rating: Harvesting the Hidden Capacity of Distribution Systems Discovered by Thermal Map Technology.
IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2020, in press. [CrossRef]
127. Anders, G.J.; Napieralski, A.; Zubert, M.; Orlikowski, M. Advanced modeling techniques for dynamic feeder rating systems.
IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2003, 39, 619–626. [CrossRef]
128. Li, H.; Tan, K.; Su, Q. Assessment of Underground Cable Ratings Based on Distributed Temperature Sensing. IEEE Trans. Power
Deliv. 2006, 21, 1763–1769. [CrossRef]
129. Diaz–Aguiló, M.; de León, F. Introducing Mutual Heating Effects in the Ladder-Type Soil Model for the Dynamic Thermal Rating
of Underground Cables. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2015, 30, 1958–1964. [CrossRef]
130. Bracale, A.; Caramia, P.; de Falco, P.; Michiorri, A.; Russo, A. Day-Ahead and Intraday Forecasts of the Dynamic Line Rating for
Buried Cables. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 4709–4725. [CrossRef]
131. Hernandez Colin, M.A.; Pilgrim, J.A. Offshore Cable Optimisation by Probabilistic Thermal Risk Estimation. In Proceedings of
the IEEE International Conference on Probabilistic Methods Applied to Power Systems (PMAPS), Boise, ID, USA, 23–28 June
2018; pp. 1–6.
132. Hernandez Colin, M.A.; Pilgrim, J.A. Cable Thermal Risk Estimation for Overplanted Wind Farms. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2020,
35, 609–617. [CrossRef]
133. Pérez-Rúa, J.A.; Cutululis, N.A. Electrical Cable Optimization in Offshore Wind Farms—A Review. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 85796–
85811. [CrossRef]
134. Colla, L.; Marelli, M. Dynamic Rating of Submarine Cables. Application to Offshore Windfarms. In Proceedings of the European
Wind Energy Association (EWEA) Offshore Conference, Frankfurt, Germany, 19–21 November 2013.
135. International Electrotechnical Commission. IEC 60853-1: Calculation of the Cyclic and Emergency Current Rating of Cables—Part 1:
Cyclic Rating Factor for Cables Up to and Including 18/30 (36) kV; International Electrotechnical Commission: Geneva, Switzerland,
1985.
136. Catmull, S.; Chippendale, R.D.; Pilgrim, J.A.; Hutton, G.; Cangy, P. Cyclic Load Proﬁles for Offshore Wind Farm Cable Rating.
IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2016, 31, 1242–1250. [CrossRef]
137. CIGRE Working Group B1.40. Offshore Generation Cable Connections; Technical Brochure n. 610; e-Cigre: Paris, France, 2015.
138. Nielsen, T.V.M.; Jakobsen, S.; Savaghebi, M. Dynamic Rating of Three–Core XLPE Submarine Cables for Offshore Wind Farms.
Appl. Sci. 2019, 9, 800. [CrossRef]
