See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/262350911
Positioning and Presenting Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
Article  in  MIS Quarterly · June 2013
DOI: 10.25300/MISQ/2013/37.2.01
CITATIONS
2,124
READS
19,831
2 authors:
Some of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projects:
eGovernment capacity building through knowledge transfer, AusAID PSLP Project View project
Design Knowledge Formulation and Reuse View project
Shirley Gregor
Australian National University
187 PUBLICATIONS   10,343 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Alan Hevner
University of South Florida
240 PUBLICATIONS   24,474 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
All content following this page was uploaded by Alan Hevner on 16 June 2015.
The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.
\nRESEARCH ESSAY
POSITIONING AND PRESENTING DESIGN SCIENCE
RESEARCH FOR MAXIMUM IMPACT1
Shirley Gregor
School of Accounting & Business Information Systems, College of Business and Economics, The Australian
National University, Canberra ACT 0200  AUSTRALIA  {Shirley.Gregor@anu.edu.au}
Alan R. Hevner
Information Systems and Decision Sciences, College of Business, University of South Florida,
4202 East Fowler Avenue, CIS1040, Tampa, FL 33620-7800  U.S.A.  {ahevner@usf.edu}
Design science research (DSR) has staked its rightful ground as an important and legitimate Information
Systems (IS) research paradigm.  We contend that DSR has yet to attain its full potential impact on the devel-
opment and use of information systems due to gaps in the understanding and application of DSR concepts and
methods.  This essay aims to help researchers (1) appreciate the levels of artifact abstractions that may be DSR
contributions, (2) identify appropriate ways of consuming and producing knowledge when they are preparing
journal articles or other scholarly works, (3) understand and position the knowledge contributions of their
research projects, and (4) structure a DSR article so that it emphasizes significant contributions to the knowl-
edge base.  Our focal contribution is the DSR knowledge contribution framework with two dimensions based
on the existing state of knowledge in both the problem and solution domains for the research opportunity under
study.  In addition, we propose a DSR communication schema with similarities to more conventional publica-
tion patterns, but which substitutes the description of the DSR artifact in place of a traditional results section.
We evaluate the DSR contribution framework and the DSR communication schema via examinations of DSR
exemplar publications.
Keywords:  Design science research (DSR), knowledge, design artifact, knowledge contribution framework,
publication schema, information systems, computer science discipline, engineering discipline, DSR theory
It is clear from the preceding that every “art” [technique] has its speculative and its practical side.  Its specu-
lation is the theoretical knowledge of the principles of the technique; its practice is but the habitual and instinc-
tive application of these principles. It is difficult if not impossible to make much progress in the application
without theory; conversely, it is difficult to understand the theory without knowledge of the technique.
Diderot, “Arts” in Encyclopédie (1751-1765) (quoted in Mokyr 2002)
Introduction1
Design science research (DSR) has been an important
paradigm of Information Systems (IS) research since the
inception of the field, and its general acceptance as a legiti-
mate approach to IS research is increasing (Hevner and
Chatterjee 2010; Kuechler and Vaishnavi 2008a).  In IS, DSR
involves the construction of a wide range of socio-technical
artifacts such as decision support systems, modeling tools,
governance strategies, methods for IS evaluation, and IS
change interventions.
1Detmar W. Straub was the accepting senior editor for this paper.
The appendices for this paper are located in the “Online Supplements”
section of the MIS Quarterly’s website (http://www.misq.org). 
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37 No. 2, pp. 337-355/June 2013
337
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
We contend that ongoing confusion and misunderstandings of
DSR’s central ideas and goals are hindering DSR from having
a more striking influence on the  IS field.  A key problem that
underlies this confusion is less than full understanding of how
DSR relates to human knowledge.  The appropriate and effec-
tive consumption and production of knowledge are related
issues that researchers should consider foremost throughout
the research process—from initial problem selection, to the
use of sound research methods, to reflection, and to communi-
cation of research results in journal and conference articles. 
However, this issue becomes paramount in reflection and
communication, and for this reason we focus on these
activities in this essay.
The essay aims to help researchers (1) appreciate the levels of
artifact abstraction that may be DSR contributions, (2) under-
stand knowledge roles in DSR and so identify appropriate
ways of consuming and producing knowledge when they are
preparing journal articles or other scholarly works, (3) under-
stand and position the knowledge contributions of their
research projects, and (4) structure a DSR article so that
significant contributions to the knowledge base are clear and
present.  In addition to being of interest to authors, the essay
should engage editors and reviewers who seek guidance on
what to expect from knowledge contributions in DSR.
Contributing to knowledge is seen as the foremost criterion
for the publication of research (e.g., Straub et al. 1994).  Con-
sistent with this point of view, the mathematician G. H. Hardy
is credited with the concise depiction of three important
questions that are asked of a potential research contribution: 
Is it true?  Is it new?  Is it interesting? (Wilson 2002, p. 168). 
The last question is perhaps the most important.  If it is
answered in the negative, then there is no need to consider the
first two questions.  Wilson (2002, p. 169) recognizes the
primacy of interesting contributions to knowledge and their
clear communication in the first four key questions that he
asks should be addressed by reviewers for journals:
1.
Are the problems discussed in the paper of sub-
stantial interest?  Would solutions of these
problems materially advance knowledge of
theory, methods or applications?
2.
Does the author either solve these problems or
else make contributions toward a solution that
improves substantially upon previous work?
3.
Are the methods of solution new?  Can the pro-
posed solution methods be used to solve other
problems of interest?
4.
Does the exposition of the paper help to clarify
our understanding of this area of research or
application?  Does the paper hold our interest
and make us want to give the paper the careful
reading that we give to important papers in our
area of specialization? 
The current essay aims to satisfy these questions for a DSR
publication.  Experience shows that many authors, reviewers,
and editors struggle to present and interpret DSR work well
with a clear understanding of knowledge contributions.  The
difficulties here likely arise from a combination of factors,
which include the relative youth of the information tech-
nology disciplines, and the comparatively recent recognition
of DSR as a distinct, yet legitimate, research paradigm.2
Design science research has been practiced for some time in
the engineering and IS disciplines, although under a variety of
labels.  Simon (1996) provided the seminal work on the
“sciences of the artificial.”  Relevant work in information
systems has been referred to as “systemeering” (Iivari 1983),
a “constructive” approach (Iivari 2007), and “systems devel-
opment”  or an “engineering approach” (Nunamaker et al.
1990-91),  Yet mainstream recognition of DSR in information
systems is acknowledged to have occurred with the 2004
Hevner et al. publication in MIS Quarterly (see Kuechler and
Vaishnavi 2008a).
Even within the design science paradigm, some differences of
opinion have emerged.  One case of this is the bifurcation into
a design-theory camp (Gregor and Jones 2007; Markus et al.
2002;  Walls et al. 1992, 2004) and  a pragmatic-design camp
(Hevner et al. 2004; March and Smith 1995; Nunamaker et al.
1990-91), with the two camps placing comparatively more
emphasis on design theory or artifacts respectively as research
contributions.  One  aim of the current paper is to harmonize
what we see as complementary rather than opposing perspec-
tives, a repositioning that can enhance the conduct and reach
of rigorous and impactful DSR.
The guidance we provide below for DSR positioning and
publishing could mean that important and relevant work will
reach a wider audience, dissemination of which contributes to
both research and professional practice.  This essay also pro-
vides theoretical significance in the philosophy of technology
because there are still unanswered questions about how, and
to what extent, DSR contributes to knowledge and gener-
alized theory (Gregor 2006; Gregor and Jones 2007; Hevner
et al. 2004; Kuechler and Vaishnavi 2012).  Thus, we clarify
issues concerning the role of theory and how partial or incom-
plete attempts at theorizing via artifact development can
contribute to evolving theory.
2This is true especially when the IT disciplines are compared to the natural
sciences, which grew to maturity during the 18th century Enlightenment, and
to the social sciences, which began their rapid growth in the Victorian period.
See Simon (1996).
338
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37 No. 2/June 2013
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
The scope of the essay should be noted.  A significant DSR
program typically encompasses many researchers over several
years with any number of intermediate research results during
its evolution.  For the purposes of this essay we primarily
target the publication of single research articles and when the
word project is used it refers to a portion of a larger program
of research that is presented in one article.  The importance of
overall research programs that encompass many smaller
projects is acknowledged in our recognition that single
articles and projects can be interim attempts at theorizing but
still be of value (see Weick 1995). 
While this essay is primarily aimed at DSR in information
systems, it has clear implications for other fields engaged in
DSR, particularly in associated areas concerned with infor-
mation technology (such as the Computer Science and
Engineering disciplines).  Information Systems specifically is
seen as a discipline that concerns the use of information
technology-related artifacts in human–machine systems (see
Lee 2001, p. iii).  We assert that the ideas and discussions
contained here apply to a broad range of IT-related fields.
The essay proceeds as follows.  The following section pro-
vides background from the extant literature for the main
themes of our study.  Here we address design theorizing and
the definition and role of the IT artifact as a basis for
appreciating levels of artifact abstractions that may be DSR
contributions.  The following three sections deal with the
main themes of the essay:  the roles of descriptive and pre-
scriptive knowledge in relation to the economics of knowl-
edge, the DSR contribution framework, and the DSR commu-
nication schema.  We conclude by discussing the impact of
these ideas on future DSR projects.
Background
We first clarify important concepts and issues that recur
throughout the essay.  We then outline some of the prior
literature that concerns the main themes.  The references to
prior literature are indicative rather than descriptive as there
is a large body of work surrounding each theme.
The Development of Design Theory
In discussing contributions to knowledge, we should consider
the vexed questions of what is meant by theory, whether
design knowledge can be a legitimate theoretical contribution,
and, further, what role an artifact plays in design-science
theorizing.  A key theme of this essay is “contributions to
knowledge,” and we argue that the development of “strong”
theory is only one form that a DSR contribution can take.  We
are of the view, as expressed in other branches of science, that
contributions to knowledge could be partial theory, incom-
plete theory, or even some particularly interesting and perhaps
surprising empirical generalization in the form of a new
design artifact (see Merton 1968; Sutton and Staw 1995).  To
explain the preceding statement in more detail, we consider
the nature of different forms of knowledge.  One form of
knowledge—theory—is seen as an abstract entity, an inter-
meshed set of statements about relationships among con-
structs that aims to describe, explain, enhance understanding
of, and, in some cases, predict the the future (Gregor 2006).
The type of theory that formalizes knowledge in DSR is
termed design theory, the fifth of the five types of theory in
Gregor’s taxonomy.  This type of theory gives prescriptions
for design and action:  it says how to do something.  We
consider design theory to be prescriptive knowledge as
opposed to descriptive knowledge, which encompasses the
other types of theory in the Gregor taxonomy (see Appendix
A for a fuller discussion on design theory).
There are many steps, however, on the road to theory devel-
opment.  Exhibit 1, discussed in more detail later, demon-
strates one process of maturation in a body of knowledge and
theory development, beginning with the development of a
novel artifact.  Knowledge then becomes more abstract and
more general, and the web of knowledge becomes more
comprehensive with clearer delimitation of boundaries.  Spe-
cial conditions that might need variation in the theory are
discovered.  Pushing the knowledge beyond prior domain
constraints and into new fields means that the boundaries of
a theory receive more testing and more support.  These
advances mean greater understanding of when a theory works
and why, and more evidence for a theory as a whole.  Thus,
the field (both problem and solution domains) is considered
more mature.
In Merton’s terms (1968, p. 39), design theories are special
theories or
theories of the middle range:  theories that lie
between the minor but necessary working hypothe-
ses that evolve in abundance during day-to-day
research and the all-inclusive systematic efforts to
develop a unified theory that will explain all the
observed uniformities of social behavior, social
organization, and social change.
All-encompassing theories are termed grand theories.  It is
not clear whether we have any grand theories in IS/IT design
science, or even whether they would be particularly useful if
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37No. 2/June 2013
339
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
Exhibit 1.  Illustration of DSR Theory Development and Knowledge Contributions
A seminal paper in the field of knowledge discovery is that of Agrawal, Imielinski and Swami (1993), “Mining Association Rules
between Sets of Items in Large Databases,” which shows how significant relationships (association rules) can be extracted
or “mined” from a large database so as to assist with human decision making.  The design knowledge presented includes the
description of the method for extracting the association rules, including the novel constructs of a confidence level (what
percentage of transactions containing one part of the rule also contain the other part) and rule support (the percentage of
transactions in the database satisfying the rule).  Pseudocode for the algorithm involved in the method is also provided
(design principles).  This algorithm is converted to operational software in order to test the method on a large, real-life
database.  This operational software is an instantiated artifact.
This design knowledge satisfies many of the criteria for partial, nascent theory.  There is a logically consistent set of state-
ments.  Constructs and statements are clearly defined with knowledge descriptions at an abstract level.  The method, con-
structs, and algorithm are described in abstract terms without having recourse to the specific software language
implementation.  The paper implicitly contains technological rules:  for example, “To find significant relationships in a large
database, use the mining algorithm.” These rules can be converted to an empirical generalization such as “Application of
the mining algorithm leads to identification of all significant relationships,” a statement that can be tested.
The design knowledge in this seminal paper, however, had not yet evolved to the stage where it could be termed design
theory.  There was no explanation of why the method works as it did, or a good account of the specific conditions under which
it held.  It was not yet known exactly what were the adequate confidence levels or degrees of rule support for effective decision
making with databases of various sizes and types.  Further, the knowledge had undergone only limited testing.  Still, the paper
proved to be enormously influential for subsequent work in knowledge discovery (with close to 12,000 cites in Google Scholar
as of October 2012).
As knowledge of data mining through association rules developed, the more mature body of knowledge came to be termed
theory (e.g., see Williams and Simoff 2006).  Better algorithms were developed and tested, additional knowledge of
constraints on the “interestingness” of relationships from the user point of view was developed, and the use of the method was
extended to areas such as web usage mining, business intelligence, and security breach detection.
they did exist.  Merton’s view was that in an applied field
(such as sociology or IS/IT), there should be a focus, but not
an exclusive focus, on theories of the middle range (pp. 50-
51) (see also Cook and Campbell 1979).
Apart from questions concerning design theory in general, the
role of kernel theories is also an issue relevant to  DSR.  The
term kernel theory was originally defined in Walls et al.’s
(1992, p. 41) seminal work to refer to “theories from natural
science, social sciences and mathematics” that are encom-
passed in design theory.  The meaning of the term has since 
blurred and, in many instances in the field of IS, it is used
synonymously with the term reference theory to mean theory
that arises in disciplines outside of IS.
In the present paper, kernel theory refers to any descriptive
theory that informs artifact construction, as in Gregor and
Jones (2007).  A mature body of design knowledge should
include kernel theory because such theory explains, at least in
part, why the design works.  We employ the term justificatory
knowledge  to be nearly synonomous with kernel theory.  It
needs to be noted, though, that justificatory knowledge has a
slightly broader meaning and here it is taken to include any
knowledge that informs design research, including informal
knowledge from the field and the experience of practitioners
(Gregor and Jones 2007).  Note that descriptive theory may be
tested and refined during the creation of a design theory 
(Kuechler and Vaishnavi 2008b) but this issue is beyond the
scope of this essay.
The Artifact as DSR Knowledge
Having considered the role of design theory and its devel-
opment, we turn more specifically to the role of the IT
artifact.3  It is important to further clarify the relationship
between the nature of the artifact/object/problem space
3We clarified in the introduction that, in IS, our main interest is in socio-
technical artifacts.  However, the terms artifact, IS/IT artifact, and IT artifact
are used more or less synonymously throughout the essay. 
340
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37 No. 2/June 2013
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
studied in DSR as separate from the contributions made by a
DSR study.  Confusion arises because the abstract knowledge
contributions that are created in DSR (e.g., design theory) can
also be treated as a type of artifact.  In general, the term
artifact is used in this paper to refer to a thing that has, or can
be transformed into, a material existence as an artificially
made object (e.g., model, instantiation) or process (e.g.,
method, software) (Goldkuhl 2002, p. 5).  Many IT artifacts
have some degree of abstraction but can be readily converted
to a material existence; for example, an algorithm converted
to operational software.
In contrast, a theory is more abstract, has a nonmaterial
existence, and contains knowledge additional to the descrip-
tion of a materially existing artifact.  There is a need to
address the perception that the so-called DSR camps require
different types of research contributions to be “true” DSR:
that is, the construct, model, method, and/or instantiation of
Hevner et al. or the design theory of Gregor and Jones.  These
apparent inconsistencies can be reconciled by recognizing the
importance of both the contributions made in the form of
viable artifacts and the contributions at more abstract levels.
We have seen how the construction of an artifact and its
description in terms of design principles and technological
rules are steps in the process of developing more compre-
hensive bodies of knowledge or design theories.  The illustra-
tion of the association rules method (Exhibit 1) demonstrates
how the initial set of design artifacts was a first step in the
development of data mining theory.  In Exhibit 1, the
physical, instantiated artifact was the operational software
used in tests with a supermarket database.  If this were the
only artifact offered, however, this paper may not have been
published.  This type of artifact is similar to a case study
description where there is no abstraction or extraction of
underlying principles and where the possibilities of gener-
alizing to other situations are slim.  The research contribution
offered by Agrawal et al. (1993), therefore, includes other,
more abstract artifacts.  These artifacts are the overall method
description, the constructs (confidence level and rule support),
the design principles (the necessary steps in the algorithm in
pseudocode), and the implicit technological rules.  Offering
these artifacts at an abstract level means that they can be
operationalized in a number of other unstudied contexts, thus
greatly increasing the external validity of the research.  These
artifacts are not yet, however, at the level of a comprehensive
theory.
Table 1 shows how the ideas developed above can be applied. 
This table builds on a framework introduced by Purao (2002)
to show how to distinguish different DSR “outputs” as
research deliverables, with three maturity levels of DSR arti-
fact types and examples at each level.  A specific DSR
research project can produce artifacts on one or more of these
levels ranging from specific instantiations at Level 1 in the
form of products and processes, to more general (i.e., abstract)
contributions at Level 2 in the form of nascent design theory
(e.g., constructs, design principles, models, methods, techno-
logical rules), to well-developed design theories about the
phenomena under study at Level 3.4
There are, however, some important differences between the
framework in Table 1 and  the Purao framework.  In Table 1,
we differentiate the levels of knowledge contribution not only
in terms of a transition from less abstract to more abstract, but
also in terms of the knowledge’s maturity level:  How far has
the knowledge advanced in terms of the characteristics of a
well-developed body of knowledge (Nagel 1979)? These
distinctions are the foundation of the knowledge contribution
framework that we present later in the essay.
Demonstrating a Contribution to Knowledge
Having discussed the forms that a contribution can take in
DSR, we turn next to the question of how a contribution is
signaled to the scientific community.  The type of knowledge
contribution that is expected in a specific research project can
vary with the community and publication outlet.  For ex-
ample, journals such as MIS Quarterly expect a clear theo-
retical contribution from research articles and only in research
notes can there be simple empirical findings or a detailed
description of an artifact.  In the social sciences, there is con-
siderable discussion about what it means to make a contribu-
tion to theory and how to signal a contribution in a journal
article.  Weick (1995), for example, acknowledges the impor-
tance of strong theory and describes how interim attempts at
theorizing can be valuable in a process of theorizing.  Indica-
tions of how contributions can be signaled are also provided
in advice to authors from  journal editors (e.g., Feldman 2004;
Straub 2009).
In the IS literature to date, however, there is limited advice on
how to signal and assess the degree of contribution in a DSR
project.  In Hevner et al. (p. 81) we find “design-science
research addresses important unsolved problems in unique or
innovative ways or solved problems in more effective or effi-
4Note that we would still include the artifact or situated implementation
(Level 1) as a knowledge contribution, even in the absence of abstraction or
theorizing about its design principles or architecture because the artifact can
be a research contribution in itself.  Demonstration of a novel artifact can be
a research contribution that embodies design ideas and theories yet to be
articulated, formalized, and fully understood.
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37No. 2/June 2013
341
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
Table 1.  Design Science Research Contribution Types
Contribution Types
Example Artifacts
More abstract, complete, and
mature knowledge
Level 3.  Well-developed  design theory about
embedded phenomena
Design theories (mid-range and grand
theories)
; ; ; ;
Level 2.  Nascent design  theory—knowledge
as operational principles/architecture
Constructs, methods, models, design
principles, technological rules.
More specific, limited, and less
mature knowledge
Level 1.  Situated implementation of artifact
Instantiations (software products or
implemented processes) 
cient ways.”  Davis (2005) presents some general concepts
that define a contribution in a Ph.D. thesis, points which are
also relevant to research articles.  One form of contribution is
whether the thesis 
develops and demonstrates new or improved design
of a conceptual or physical artifact.  This is often
termed “design science.”  The contribution may be
demonstrated by reasoning, proof of concept, proof
of value added, or proof of acceptance and use (p.
18).
Davis goes on to show some conditions under which devel-
opment work would not be considered a contribution, for
example, when a project has been completed in industry
(although the project may have required a significant effort
and the results were useful).  However, industry results are
typically not suitable for a research thesis or paper because
“they do not make a contribution to knowledge other than
actually doing something that everyone knows can be done
and at least conceptually how to do it” (p. 18).
We conclude that  the field has not reached an understanding
as to what defines a clear knowledge contribution from a DSR
project.  This shortcoming has limited the acceptance and
impact of DSR in the IS community.  Thus, the primary goal
of this essay is to provide usable guidance on how to under-
stand, position, and present DSR knowledge contributions.
In addition to a knowledge contribution, effective DSR should
make clear contributions to the real-world application envi-
ronment from which the research problem or opportunity is
drawn (Hevner et al. 2004).  While our emphasis is on the
clarification of  the role of scholarly knowledge contributions
in DSR, we would be remiss not to mention the important
contributions that DSR projects make to praxis.  The rele-
vance of research results to applications in business has been
highlighted as a key distinguishing feature of DSR in IS
research commentaries (e.g., Straub and Ang 2011).
Recent debates in the IS community have centered on the
importance of contributing to practice via IS research.  The
German Wirtshaftsinformatik community has published a
memorandum calling for greater recognition of design-
oriented IS research and has drawn attention to the close
working relationship of industry and academia in Europe
(Österle et al. 2011).  In a similar vein, Gill and Bhattacherjee
(2009) decry the lack of practical “informing” provided to
clients by most IS research.  Responses to these concerns
highlight the openness of the IS community and its research
journals to DSR projects and emphasize the need to publish
both theory and practice contributions (Baskerville et al.
2011; Myers and Baskerville 2009).
Research Approach
In essence, the method employed in developing this essay is
itself a DSR approach.  Methods for DSR are available in a
number of forms (see Hevner and Chatterjee 2010; Vaishnavi
and Kuechler 2008).  Our method parallels that described by 
Peffers et al. (2008) and includes the following steps: 
(1) identify problem; (2) define solution objectives; (3) design
and development; (4) demonstration; (5) evaluation; and
(6) communication.  The Peffers et al. research process offers
a useful synthesized general model, building on other ap-
proaches.  Further,we find this  model to be compatible with
our underlying ontological perspective, which follows that of
Popper (1978) and Habermas (1984) (see also Gregor and
Jones 2007; Iivari 2007).  The Popperian/Habermas high-level
ontology perspective is a pluralist form of realism in which
three separate domains are recognized:  the objective world of
material things (World 1), the subjective world of mental
states (World 2), and an objectively existing but abstract
world of human-made entities—language, theories, models,
constructs and so on (World 3).  This ontological perspective
allows distinctions to be drawn between instantiations of
artifacts (World 1) and abstract knowledge (World 3) (as in
Table 1) and also the subjective ideas and experiences of
designers and users (World 2).
342
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37 No. 2/June 2013
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
In terms of the Peffers et al. model, our research process
included realizing a problem situation (activity 1), analyzing
published literature for ideas (activity 2), developing proto-
type pattern solutions, and testing these prototypes in practice,
both personally and with others.  Testing and revising proto-
types of the proposed solution patterns have occurred through
expert review, with preliminary versions exposed to
researchers and students in classes, workshops, and seminars
(activity 3).  A proof-of-concept demonstration of the appli-
cability of the proposed patterns is given later in this essay
with a sample of published DSR papers examined to explore
the fidelity of these designs to past DSR work (activity 4).
Summative evaluation has occurred in seminars with
participant feedback and in the classroom where doctoral
students completed assignments that applied the knowledge
contribution ideas found later (activity 5).  Further proof-of-
use and proof-of-value analyses (Nunamaker and Briggs
2011) will follow once we see how these ideas are applied in
future DSR publications.
Following this research approach, in the next three sections,
we design and present improved representations of DSR
concepts in the form of models, frameworks, and templates,
accompanied by a demonstration of the ideas against prior
work.  The paper concludes with a discussion of future DSR
directions yet to be explored.
Consuming and Producing
Knowledge via DSR
The first issue to consider is how to understand the activities
of consuming and producing knowledge via DSR.  This
section examines the roles of knowledge in the two spheres of
natural and artificial science, and shows how each role is
valuable and how the roles are interlinked.  Drawing from the
economics of knowledge field, useful DSR knowledge can be
divided into two distinct types (see Mokyr 2002).  Descriptive
knowledge (denoted Ω or omega) is the “what” knowledge
about natural phenomena and the laws and regularities among
phenomena.  Prescriptive knowledge (denoted Λ or lambda)
is the “how” knowledge of human-built artifacts.  Figure 1
shows that both Ω knowledge and Λ knowledge comprise a
comprehensive knowledge base for a particular DSR domain.
Appendix B provides an expanded discussion of the DSR
knowledge base and its application in DSR projects.
Among the key insights we explore in this essay are the
various relationships and interactions of Ω knowledge and Λ
knowledge in the performance of DSR.  Figure 2 illustrates
these ideas.  DSR begins with an important opportunity, chal-
lenging problem, or insightful vision/conjecture for something
innovative in the application environment (Hevner 2007;
Hevner et al. 2004; Iivari 2007).  Research questions typically
center on how to increase some measure of operational utility
vis-à-vis new or improved design artifacts.  To study the
research questions, the first enquiry is:  What do we know
already?  From what existing knowledge can we draw?  Both
Ω and Λ knowledge bases are investigated for their con-
tributions to the grounding of the research project.  Such
investigations are contingent on researchers having ready and
efficient access to both knowledge bases.
From the Ω base, the researcher draws appropriately relevant
descriptive and propositional knowledge that informs the
research questions.  Relevant knowledge may be drawn from
many different elements in Ω, including existing justificatory
theories that relate to the goals of the research.  At the same
time, from the Λ base, the researcher investigates known
artifacts and design theories that have been used to solve the
same or similar research problems in the past.  The objective
is to provide a baseline of knowledge on which to evaluate the
novelty of new artifacts and knowledge resulting from the
research.  In many cases, the new design research contribution
is an important extension of an existing artifact or the appli-
cation of an existing artifact in a new application domain.
The success of a design research project is predicated on the
research skills of the team in appropriately drawing knowl-
edge from both Ω and Λ bases to ground and position the
research; the teams’ cognitive skills (e.g., creativity and
reasoning) in designing innovative solutions; and the teams’
social skills in bringing together all of the individual
members’ collective intelligence via effective teamwork.
The Knowledge Contribution
Framework
As a focus of this essay, we present the DSR knowledge
contribution framework that embodies our insights on how
best to understand and position the contributions of a DSR
project.  Often identifying a knowledge contribution is
difficult in DSR because it depends on the nature of the
designed artifact (as seen in Table 1), the state of the field of
knowledge, the audience to whom it is to be communicated,
and the publication outlet.  In addition, the degree of knowl-
edge contribution can vary:  there might be incremental arti-
fact construction or only partial theory building, but this may
still be a significant and publishable contribution because it is
“new to the world.”  Further, the size of the knowledge
increase could be offset by the practical impact in a
knowledge area.
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37No. 2/June 2013
343
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
Useful Knowledge
Ω  – Descriptive 
Knowledge
• Phenomena (Natural, 
Artificial, Human)
• Observations
• Classification
• Measurement
• Cataloging
• Sense-making
• Natural Laws
• Regularities
• Principles
• Patterns
• Theories
• Constructs
Λ  – Prescriptive 
Knowledge
• Concepts
• Symbols
• Methods
• Algorithms
• Techniques
• Representation
• Semantics/Syntax
• Models
• Design Theory
• Systems
• Products/Processes
• Instantiations
Figure 1.  The Design Science Research Knowledge Base
Figure 2.  The Roles of Knowledge in Design Science Research
A fundamental issue is that nothing is really “new.”  Every-
thing is made out of something else or builds on some
previous idea.  When is something really novel or a signifi-
cant advance on prior work?  A DSR project has the potential
to make different types and levels of research contributions
depending on its starting points in terms of problem maturity
and solution maturity.  This variation reflects the research
project’s placement along the timeline of knowledge growth 
in the discipline (see Appendix B) and is related to the
problem maturity and solution maturity available and relevant
to the DSR project.
Figure 3 presents a 2 × 2 matrix of research project contexts
and potential DSR research contributions.  The x-axis shows 
344
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37 No. 2/June 2013
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
Figure 3.  DSR Knowledge Contribution Framework
the maturity of the problem context from high to low.  The y-
axis represents the current maturity of artifacts that exist as
potential starting points for solutions to the research question,
also from high to low.
This framework does not have any obvious counterparts in
prior literature.  Colquitt and Zapata-Phelan (2007) present a
taxonomy to classify theoretical contributions from empirical
papers, but they use theory testing and theory building as the
dimensions of their 2 × 2 matrix.  The framework in Figure 3
differs in that theory building and theory testing activities, all
part of an overarching research cycle, can complement each
other in any one of the cells (except, perhaps, the routine
design cell).  Some similar concepts can be found in work on
creativity and innovation, where the processes by which
existing knowledge is transformed into new, useful products
are examined (e.g., Savransky 2000; Sternberg et al. 2002).
This work, however, deals more with the processes of crea-
tivity and is less structured than our matrix.  We also
acknowledge a possible comparison with Stokes’ (1997) 2 × 2
model of scientific research that has axes of practical use (x-
axis) and fundamental knowledge (y-axis).  While these con-
cepts may be intuitive, it would be difficult to predict where
to place a proposed project on the Stokes matrix a priori.  Our
framework focuses attention on the knowledge start-points
(e.g., maturities) of the research project to support a clearer
understanding of the project goals and the new contributions
to be achieved.
We proceed to discuss the quadrants of Figure 3.  In each
quadrant, we briefly describe the contextual starting points of
the research in terms of problem and solution knowledge
foundations.  Exemplars of work in this quadrant are ex-
plored.  For each quadrant, we discuss the type of contribution
that can be made in terms of different levels of artifact/theory
in DSR and also in terms of contribution to and flow between 
Ω and Λ knowledge bases.  Note that, in discussing the
knowledge flows, we are talking about the flows within the
IS/IT knowledge bases, not the flows to reference disciplines
outside IS.  The latter is important but beyond the scope of
this essay.
Invention:  New Solutions for New Problems
True invention is a radical breakthrough—a clear departure
from the accepted ways of thinking and doing.  Inventions are
rare and inventors are rarer still.  The invention process can be
described as an exploratory search over a complex problem
space that requires cognitive skills of curiosity, imagination,
creativity, insight, and knowledge of multiple realms of
inquiry to find a feasible solution.  While this process of
invention is perhaps ill-defined, invention activities can still
be considered DSR when the result is an artifact that can be
applied and evaluated in a real-world context and when new
knowledge is contributed to the Ω and/or Λ knowledge bases.
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37No. 2/June 2013
345
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
DSR projects in this quadrant will entail research in new and
interesting applications where little current understanding of
the problem context exists and where no effective artifacts are
available as solutions.  In fact, so little may be known about
the problem that research questions may not even have been
raised before.  Research contributions in this quadrant result
in recognizably novel artifacts or inventions.  In this category
appear artifacts where the idea of the artifact itself is new; for
example, the first bicycle or the first decision support system. 
This type of work does not fit neatly with some models of
DSR where the first step is shown as “define the research
problem and justify the value of a solution” (see Peffers et al.
2008).  Here, a recognized problem may not necessarily exist
and the value of a solution may be unclear.  As Simon (1996)
says, the researcher may be guided by nothing more than
“interestingness.”  In part, a key contribution is the con-
ceptualization of the problem itself.
Exhibit 1 illustrates a well-known exemplar of invention in
the IT field.  Agrawal et al. (1993) developed what appears to
be the first full conceptualization of mining databases for
association rules as well as an efficient method for dis-
covering them.  As an invention, this paper has generated and
influenced a whole new field of research.  Other examples of
IT inventions would include the first thinking on decision
support systems (DSS) by Scott-Morton (1967), and the
subsequent evolution of DSS into executive support systems
(ESS) (Rockart and DeLong 1988) and group decision
support systems (GDSS) (Nunamaker et al. 1991b).
Most research papers that fall into the invention category are
at the artifact/instantiation level.  We cannot find a single
example where an invention has been advanced as design
theory before it was demonstrated in a physical artifact.  In
history, perhaps Vannevar Bush’s idea of the Memex or
Charles Babbage’s idea of a calculating machine are the
closest.  There are no examples of mid-range theories or grand
design theories that have been advanced as inventions.
Usually, as Merton says, such theories have to build on an
accumulation of knowledge about a range of artifacts all
addressing the same application problem—which means the
problem is known and, thus, not in the invention quadrant.
Knowledge flows in the invention quadrant are typically from
prescriptive to descriptive.  The new artifact is invented and
then other researchers see it employed in use and begin to
formulate descriptive knowledge about its use in context (in
a different quadrant).  Within the IS knowledge base, if
descriptive knowledge exists about the artifact-type, then it is
not a novel application domain (it has high application
maturity).  However, kernel theory from outside the IS knowl-
edge base could be used to give ideas for parts of the design.
Improvement:  New Solutions for
Known Problems
The goal of DSR in the improvement quadrant is to create
better solutions in the form of more efficient and effective
products, processes, services, technologies, or ideas.  Re-
searchers must contend with a known application context for
which useful solution artifacts either do not exist or are
clearly suboptimal.  Researchers will draw from a deep under-
standing of the problem environment to build innovative
artifacts as solutions to important problems.  The key chal-
lenge in this quadrant is to clearly demonstrate that the
improved solution genuinely advances on previous
knowledge.
Much of the previous and current DSR in IT belongs to this
quadrant of improvement research.  One example is McLaren
et al.’s (2011) multilevel model for strategic fit, which
addresses a need for “a more finely grained” (p. 2) tool for
diagnosing strategic fit.  We describe this exemplar more fully
in Appendix C.  Another classic example is the research
stream of improvements to the GDSS literature as exemplified
by Nunamaker et al. (1991a).  This paper studies how the
design of improved anonymity features impacts the effective-
ness of option generation in negotiating groups using GDSS.
Improvement DSR is judged first on its ability to clearly
represent and communicate the new artifact design.  The
presentation will show how and why the new solution differs
from current solutions.  The reasons for making the improve-
ment should, desirably, be formally grounded in kernel
theories from the  knowledge base.  Once the design improve-
ment is described, then the artifact must be evaluated to
provide convincing evidence of its improvement over current
solutions.  Improvement may be in the form of positive
changes in efficiency, productivity, quality, competitiveness,
market share, or other quality measures, depending on the
goals of the research.
In the improvement quadrant, DSR projects make contri-
butions to the Λ knowledge base in the form of artifacts at one
or more levels as described in Table 1.  Situated instantiations
(Level 1) are often constructed to evaluate the level of
improvements in comparison with instantiations of the
existing solution artifacts.  As appropriate, more general
artifacts (Level 2) in the form of constructs, methods, models,
and design principles are proposed as research improvements. 
In addition, new Λ knowledge may be formulated as mid-
range design theory (Level 3) as a result of improved under-
standings of the problem and solution spaces.  Further, the
evaluations of the improved artifact may lead to knowledge
contributions to the Ω knowledge base in the form of
346
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37 No. 2/June 2013
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
expanded understanding of the kernel theories or the
development of new behavioral theories of the artifact in use.
Exaptation:  Known Solutions Extended
to New Problems
Original ideas often occur to individuals who have experience
in multiple disciplines of thought.  Such training allows inter-
connections and insights among the fields to result in the
expropriation of artifacts in one field to solve problems in
another field.  Thus, we may face a research situation in
which artifacts required in a field are not available or are
suboptimal.  However, effective artifacts may exist in related
problem areas that may be adapted or, more accurately,
exapted5 to the new problem context.  In this quadrant are
contributions where design knowledge that already exists in
one field is extended or refined so that it can be used in some
new application area.
This type of research is common in IS, where new technology
advances often require new applications (i.e., to respond to
new problems) and a consequent need to test or refine prior
ideas.  Often, these new advances open opportunities for the
exaptation of theories and artifacts to new fields.  Exemplars
of exaptation in IS  research include Berndt et al.’s (2003)
research on the CATCH data warehouse for health care
information where well-known methods of data warehouse
development (e.g., Inmon 1992) are exapted to new and
interesting areas of health information systems and
Chaturvedi et al.’s (2011) design principles for the user
experience in virtual worlds where the user experience in this
context could be expected to be significantly different from
online experiences in general.  Another recent example of
exaptation is the design of an embodied conversational agent
(ECA) based kiosk for automated interviewing (Nunamaker
et al. 2011).  This project exapts existing artifacts of sensors
and intelligent agents for innovative design of systems for use
in automated deception detection.
In exaptation research, the researcher needs to demonstrate
that the extension of known design knowledge into a new
field is nontrivial and interesting.  The new field must present
some particular challenges that were not present in the field
in which the techniques have already been applied.  In the
exaptation quadrant, similarly to the improvement quadrant,
DSR can make contributions to the Λ knowledge base in the
form of artifacts at all three levels as appropriate to the
research project goals.  Ω-knowledge contributions may also
be produced via a greater understanding of the new artifacts
in use.
Routine Design:  Known Solutions
for Known Problems
Routine design occurs when existing knowledge for the
problem area is well understood and when existing artifacts
are used to address the opportunity or question.  Research
opportunities are less obvious, and these situations rarely
require research methods to solve the given problem.  In this
quadrant is work that would not normally be thought of as
contributing to research because existing knowledge is
applied in familiar problem areas in a routine way.  However,
routine work may in some cases lead to surprises and
discoveries (see Stokes 1997); but, in such cases, these
discoveries will likely involve moving the research to one of
the other quadrants.
It is important that high-quality professional design or com-
mercial system building be clearly distinguished from DSR.
Professional design is the application of existing knowledge
to organizational problems, such as constructing a financial or
marketing information system using “best practice” artifacts
(constructs, models, methods, and instantiations) that exist in
the knowledge base.  The key differentiator between profes-
sional design and DSR is the clear identification of contri-
butions to the Ω and Λ knowledge bases in DSR and the
communication of these contributions to the stakeholder
communities.
Applying the Knowledge 
Contribution Framework
We examined a sample of DSR articles in a leading IS journal
to determine if the knowledge claims in the articles are classi-
fiable according to the contribution framework we have pro-
posed.  (Note that some of these articles may not have iden-
tified themselves as DSR at the time of publication.)  The
sample includes 13 DSR articles published in MIS Quarterly
from 2006 to 2011 inclusive.  Table 2 shows the results of this
classification process and the evidence for the placement of
the contribution in one of the four quadrants.  The two authors
performed the classification process independently and there
were no disagreements about placement in a specific
quadrant.
This analysis shows that authors used arguments to justify
their contributions in DSR that match the three “contribution”
5In biological evolution, exaptation is the adaptation of a trait for a different
purpose from its original purpose.  The classic example, featured in Gould
and Vrba (1982), is the exaptation of bird feathers to the purposes of flight
from the original purported purposes of bodily temperature regulation.
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37No. 2/June 2013
347
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
Table 2.  DSR Articles in MISQ 2006-2011 Classified by Knowledge Contribution Type
Knowledge
Contribution
Article
Knowledge Contribution Claims
Improvement
A Multilevel Model for Measuring Fit Between a
Firm’s Competitive Strategies and Information
Systems Capabilities (McLaren et al. 2011)
There is a need for a more fine-grained model for diagnosing the
individual IS capabilities that contribute to the overall fit or misfit
between a firm’s competitive strategies and IS capabilities (p. 2) (see
also Appendix C, Table C1).
Improvement
Guidelines for Designing Visual Ontologies to
Support Knowledge Identification  (Bera et al.
2011) 
There could be several ways to address OWL’s inability to show state
changes… .We have taken a different path, taking the view that we
can keep the existing OWL syntax and improve the extent to which it
supports knowledge identification (pp. 885-886).
Exaptation
Co-creation in Virtual Worlds:  The Design of
the User Experience (Kohler et al. 2011)
While Nambisan and his colleagues provide a useful framework for
the online environment in general, little is known about designing
co-creation experiences in virtual worlds (p. 774).
Exaptation
Design Principles for Virtual Worlds
(Chaturvedi et al. 2011)  
ABVWs comprise a new class of information systems… .Thus, they
require an extension of the corresponding information system design
principles (p. 675)
Improvement
Correlated Failures, Diversification, and
Information Security Risk Management (Chen et
al. 2011)
While our model to estimate security loss due to unavailability (i.e.,
system downtime) is based on well-established queuing models,
one innovation of our model is that the distribution from which the
number of requests sent to the queue is drawn is endogeneous to
system variables (p. 399).
Exaptation
The Effects of Tree-View Based Presentation
Adaptation on Mobile Web Browsing.  (Adipat et
al. 2011) 
Presentation adaptation has been studied in the desktop environment
and has been proven beneficial … . However, research on adapta-
tion of Web content presentation for mobile handheld devices is
still rare (p. 100).
Improvement
Improving Employees’ Compliance Through
Information Systems Security Training:  An
Action Research Study  (Puhakainen and
Sipponen 2010)
There is a need for IS security training approaches that are theory-
based and empirically evaluated (p. 757).  To address this deficiency
… this paper developed a theory-based training program … .This
paper then tested the practical workability through an action research
intervention (p. 776).
Improvement
Detecting Fake Websites:  The Contribution of
Statistical Learning Theory  (Abbasi et al. 2010)
Systems grounded in SLT can more accurately detect various
categories of fake web sites (p. 435).
Improvement
The Design Theory Nexus (Pries-Heje and
Baskerville 2008)
The work suggests that the design theory nexus approach is more
universal than previous approaches to contingency theory, because it
can operate in both symmetrical and asymmetrical settings (p. 748).
Improvement
Process Grammar as a Tool for Business
Process Design (Lee et al. 2008) 
The method improves on existing approaches by offering the
generative power of grammar-based methods while addressing the
principal challenge to using such approaches (p. 757).
Improvement
Making Sense of Technology Trends in the
Information Technology Landscape:  A Design
Science Approach (Adomavicius, et al. 2008)
Our approach may complement existing technology forecasting
methods … by providing structured input and formal analysis of the
past and current states of the IT landscape (p. 802).
Improvement
CyberGate:  A Design Framework and System
for Text Analysis of Computer-Mediated
Communication (Abbasi and Chen 2008)
The results revealed that the CyberGate system and its underlying
design framework can dramatically improve CMC text analysis
capabilities over those provided by existing systems (p. 811).
Improvement
Using Cognitive Principles to Guide
Classification in Information Systems Modeling
(Parsons and Wand 2008)
Despite the importance of classification, no well-grounded methods
exist (p. 840).  We provide empirical evidence…that the rules can
guide the construction of semantically clearer and more useful
models (p. 858).
348
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37 No. 2/June 2013
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
quadrants in Figure 3.  There were no papers that matched the
“Routine Design” quadrant.  As might be predicted, there
were also no papers that fell into the “Invention” quadrant—
pure invention is valuable but unfortunately rare.  A sur-
prising finding was that 10 of the 13 surveyed papers fell into
the “Improvement” quadrant while only 3 were in the “Exap-
tation” quadrant.  We believe this finding to be unusual based
on our awareness of a fairly large number of projects in IS
that would be classified in the “Exaptation” quadrant.
As another testimony to the usefulness and ease of learning of
the knowledge contribution framework, during May 2011, one
of the authors presented the framework to a class of 15 IS/CS
doctoral students at a large European university.  An assign-
ment required the students to take a DSR paper of their own
research interest and critique its research contributions to
include classifying the contribution according to the frame-
work.  The students had little difficulty in placing the papers
into quadrants with clear rationales for doing so.
Design Science Research
Publication Schema
Once the research team has correctly positioned their DSR
contributions with respect to the appropriate knowledge bases,
the challenge becomes communicating the new ideas to the
stakeholder communities.  The design community lags the
behavioral community in having useful templates for commu-
nicating knowledge contributions.  Helpful advice for pre-
paring behavioral research for publication is provided by
numerous authors including Bem (2003) for psychology,
Perry (1998) for marketing, MacKenzie et al. (2011) for
management and IS, and Neumann (2006) for the social
sciences in general.
Some basic guidance on presenting DSR knowledge contri-
butions is given in work including Hevner et al. (2004),
Hevner and Chatterjee (2010), Peffers et al. (2008), Sørenson
(2002), Vaishnavi and Kuechler (2008), Zobel (2005), and
Sein et al. (2011), although this guidance is not highly
detailed and thus does not approach the depth of discussion in
the behavioral science literature.  In addition, the treatment of
publication schema for DSR is scant.  In part, this problem
arises because much of the work on DSR sees the develop-
ment of the artifact itself as the whole point and, accordingly,
there has been little emphasis on what it means to make a
contribution to generalized knowledge.  Thus, we conclude
that the literature provides insufficient advice on how DSR is
communicated and its contributions to knowledge established.
Table 3 outlines a publication pattern for a DSR study.  The
aspects of the pattern that are similar to a conventional paper
in the behavioral science empirical mode (as in Bem 2003)
are italicized.  Note that other patterns are possible and many
articles will not include every component that is sketched
below; this suggested pattern is not meant to be overly
prescriptive.  Appendix C shows an example of a paper
illustrating the schema.
Publication Schema for a Design Science
Research Study
(1) Introduction Section
For DSR, the problem definition and research objectives
should specify the purpose and scope of the artifact to be
developed (what the system is for).  The purpose gives the set
of meta-requirements or goals for the artifact and shows the
boundary of any design theory.  It is also important to identify
the class of problems (McKenney and Keen 1974) to which
this specific problem belongs, which helps with placing the
work against prior literature and showing its contribution
clearly (see Sein et al. 2011).  The relevance of the research
problem to real-world practice must be clearly stated.  A
simple example to show the artifact’s purpose (as in a simple
use case) can help orient the reader to the following discus-
sion.  The claims for contributions to practice and knowledge/
theory should also be made here and be expanded on later.
(2) Literature Review Section
The literature survey should include relevant descriptive
theory from Ω, prior prescriptive knowledge or existing
artifacts from Λ, and any knowledge that is relevant to the
problem at hand.  It is essential to carry out this survey care-
fully and to include work that may have been performed
under a different label with similar aims.  For example, work
in business analytics should look at work generally in deci-
sion support  (if this is the class of problems to which this
problem belongs).  If this survey is not done carefully, the
developed artifact risks not being really new and it will not be
possible to demonstrate an unquestioned claim to a contribu-
tion to knowledge.
Included here is any justificatory knowledge (kernel theory)
that was used to inform the construction of the new artifact.
The exact placement of the justificatory theory can require
some judgement.  An outline of the justificatory knowledge
may be given in this section, although it may make more sense
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37No. 2/June 2013
349
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
Table 3.  Publication Schema for a Design Science Research Study
Section
Contents
1.
Introduction
Problem definition, problem significance/motivation, introduction to key concepts, research
questions/objectives, scope of study, overview of methods and findings, theoretical and practical
significance, structure of remainder of paper.  
For DSR, the contents are similar, but the problem definition and research objectives should
specify the goals that are required of the artifact to be developed.  
2.
Literature Review
Prior work that is relevant to the study, including theories, empirical research studies and
findings/reports from practice.
For DSR work, the prior literature surveyed should include any prior design theory/knowledge
relating to the class of problems to be addressed, including artifacts that have already been
developed to solve similar problems.  
3.
Method
The research approach that was employed.  
For DSR work, the specific DSR approach adopted should be explained with reference to
existing authorities.  
4.
Artifact Description
A concise description of the artifact at the appropriate level of abstraction to make a new
contribution to the knowledge base.
This section (or sections) should occupy the major part of the paper.  The format is likely to be
variable but should include at least the description of the designed artifact and, perhaps, the
design search process.  
5.
Evaluation
Evidence that the artifact is useful.
The artifact is evaluated to demonstrate its worth with evidence addressing criteria such as 
validity, utility, quality, and efficacy.  
6.
Discussion 
Interpretation of the results:  what the results mean and how they relate back to the objectives
stated in the Introduction section.  Can include:  summary of what was learned, comparison with
prior work, limitations, theoretical significance, practical significance, and areas requiring further
work.
Research contributions are highlighted and the broad implications of the paper’s results to
research and practice are discussed.  
7.
Conclusions
Concluding paragraphs that restate the important findings of the work.  
Restates the main ideas in the contribution and why they are important.  
to show details along with the specific aspect of the design to
which it refers in the Artifact Description Section.
(3) Method Section
For DSR work, the specific DSR approach adopted should be
explained, with reference to existing authorities (e.g., Hevner
et al. 2004; Nunamaker et al. 1990-91; Peffers et al. 2008;
Sein et al. 2011).  Clear rationales for the selections of design
(build and evaluate) methods appropriate for the research
project must be provided.  Research rigor is the driving goal
for methods selection.
(4) Artifact Description Section
This section differs markedly from articles adopting the
typical format of a behavioral science empirical article (as in
Bem 2003).  Several sections may be needed and will likely
occupy a major portion of the paper.  The format may be
variable but should include at least the description of the
design artifact and, perhaps, the design search (development)
process that led to the discovery of the artifact design.  Pre-
senting the design search process might assist in demon-
strating credibility.  For example, it could describe an iterative
design with intermediate test stages, where the testing and
evaluation is formative, part of the development process, and
is likely to include basic tests of validity using test data,
scenarios, and simple experimentation.
There is likely to be a variety of ways in which the material
in this section is presented and there are likely to be different
design practices depending on the type of artifact and the
research outlet.  The format for presenting a computer
science/software engineering “IT product” artifact will be
different from that used with an IS “socio-technical artifact”
where an intervention in a social system (community or
organizational) will have occurred (Niederman and March
2012).  Further, there is often difficulty representing the
350
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37 No. 2/June 2013
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
design of a complex artifact in the space that is allowed in a
journal.
(5) Evaluation Section
The artifact is evaluated in terms of criteria that can include
validity, utility, quality, and efficacy.  Validity means that the
artifact works and does what it is meant to do; that it is
dependable in operational terms in achieving its goals.  The
utility criteria assesses whether the achievement of goals has
value outside the development environment.  A rigorous
design evaluation may draw from many potential techniques,
such as analytics, case studies, experiments, or simulations
(see Hevner et al. 2004) and naturalistic evaluations (Carlsson
2010).  Further sources for methods of evaluation include
Pries-Heje et al. (2008) and Sein et al. (2011).
Any evidence for the worth of the artifact should be given: 
for example, final summative tests in case studies or experi-
ments, expert review, simulations, statistics on usage data for
implemented systems, and evidence of impact in the field.  It
is important to note that some degee of flexibility may be
allowed in judging the degree of evaluation that is needed
when new DSR contributions are made—particularly with
very novel artifacts, a “proof-of-concept” may be sufficient.
When a researcher has expended significant effort in devel-
oping an artifact in a project, often with much formative
testing, the summative (final) testing should not necessarily be
expected to be as full or as in-depth as evaluation in a
behavioral research project where the artifact was developed
by someone else.
(6) Discussion Section
Bem (2003) says that this section should go back to gener-
alities as far as possible.  A summary of what has been
learned could be provided by expressing the design knowl-
edge gained in terms of the design theory framework specified
by Gregor and Jones (2007), as in the example provided by
Moody (2009).  For some types of artifact, particularly the
“IT product” type frequently seen in computer science, this
explicit identification of the theory may not be necessary for
the target audience.
Further, with socio-technical artifacts in IS, when the design
is complex in terms of the size of the artifact and the number
of components (social and technical), then explicit extraction
of design principles may be needed.  This extraction/ identifi-
cation of the main design principles discovered/invented
during the project can be difficult and a project logbook can
help with this reflection (see Spradley 1979).  In this section,
a claim must be reiterated for the novelty of the artifact or
theory.  It should be clear to the reader that bridging the
“research gap” has been achieved via convincing evidence.
(7) Conclusions Section
This section can begin with concluding paragraphs that restate
the important findings of the work.  The main highlights of
the paper should be reiterated—the declaration of victory.
Highlighting the Knowledge Contribution
in a Publication
The above schema gives an outline for the presentation of a
DSR article.  What is likely to be the most critical part of this
presentation is how the author stakes the claim to a knowl-
edge contribution.  We need the sections on the method, arti-
fact description, and evaluation to answer the question:  Is it
true?  (That is, Why should I believe you?)  We are still left,
however, with other questions:  Is it new?  Is it interesting?
Has there been a genuine contribution to knowledge?
Readers must be convinced of affirmative answers to all three
for a top journal quality publication.
How does one do this effectively?  As with behavioral science
papers, this task is not an easy one and, in part, relies on an
author’s experience and ability to tell a story.  Nevertheless,
by drawing on the views offered earlier, it is possible to offer
some guidelines.  The underlying principle is that authors
should understand and convey how their work fits in the
process of developing mature bodies of design knowledge and
theory.
The introductory section is of the utmost importance because
of first impressions.  It is here that one can highlight the
practical importance of the problem, thereby adding to the
interestingness of the work.  For example, Agrawal et al.
(1993) begins with the statement:  “Consider a supermarket
with a large collection of items,” which immediately demon-
strates in simple language that a practical problem is being
addressed.  It is also important in the introductory section to
position the paper against both the existing state of knowledge
for the problem area (if any) and also the type of contribution
you are making in terms of the knowledge contribution frame-
work.  The overarching problem area needs to be identified at
the highest level possible (the classic concern), and the
deficiencies or gaps in knowledge identified.  Of course, the
claims that are made about the existing state of knowledge
must be supported in the following literature review section. 
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37No. 2/June 2013
351
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
Then the type of contribution being made—either invention,
improvement, or exaptation—can be stated.  The contribution
can be clearly expressed in terms of whether it is extending a
relatively mature design theory from another field (exaptation
quadrant), offering a nascent theory to a well-known problem
where existing theory has shortcomings (improvement quad-
rant), or beginning an entirely new area of thinking and prac-
tical contribution by inventing a novel artifact.  This guideline
is congruent with Feldman’s (2004) advice to behavioral
researchers to signal their intention with respect to theorizing.
The discussion and conclusions sections are the other critical
sections for signaling a contribution.  Authors should sum-
marize what was learned and analyze this new knowledge
against prior work to show that it is an advance on previous
knowledge.  First, the design evaluation must provide con-
vincing evidence that the research makes a practical contribu-
tion to the application context.  Only then can the researchers
reflect on this contribution and formulate the knowledge
contributions to the general field.  We suggest that, perhaps,
apart from the invention quadrant, the new knowledge is
likely to be more highly regarded the further up the levels of
abstraction it can be pushed to nascent design theory or more
complete design theory (Table 1).  An artifact that is pre-
sented with a higher level degree of abstraction can be
generalized to other situations and is more interesting than a
simple descriptive case study of what happened in one situa-
tion.  What separates the more comprehensive bodies of
knowledge and theory from the lower level nascent theory and
artifact descriptions?  If we examine the components of a
design theory closely (Gregor and Jones 2007), we see that it
includes knowledge found also in a description of an artifact,
as in meta-requirements (goal/boundary descriptions), con-
structs, and principles of form and function.  What further
distinguishes design theory is that it includes kernel theory to
explain why the artifact works along with testable proposi-
tions.  If research can be expressed in these terms, with more
explanation, more precision, more abstraction, and more
testing of beliefs facilitated, then there is a move toward a
more mature and well-developed body of knowledge—our
ultimate goal (Nagel 1979).
However, we also wish to caution researchers to clearly
understand what contributions can be claimed in their
research project.  Researchers should not force results into a
design theory description if such a presentation is not appro-
priate or useful.  Often, DSR results can be presented effec-
tively as artifact representations and rigorous evaluations of
the artifact in use.  Only when expression of these results in
a design theory provides a useful generalization for extending
knowledge in the problem or solution domains should such a
design theory be presented.
Discussion and Conclusions
This essay addresses the issues associated with knowledge
contributions in design science research in IT-related fields,
including information systems.  It aims to assist researchers
in identifying appropriate ways of consuming and producing
knowledge when they are preparing journal or other scholarly
works and to assist editors, reviewers, and readers in more
easily identifying the degree of contribution made by a
research study.  The essay also aims at clarifying some per-
ceived confusions in terminology and the types of contribu-
tions from DSR.  To these ends, the paper has developed a
DSR knowledge contribution framework and a DSR publi-
cation schema as DSR knowledge contributions.
As with any work of this type, the proposed contribution
framework and publication schema should be seen as guide-
lines; they are not meant to be followed blindly or serve as a
straightjacket for future work.  Researchers should be able to
exercise their discretion to vary what is proposed or to suggest
and implement improvements.  Likewise, editors and
reviewers of DSR papers should not use deviations from the
framework and schema as primary reasons to reject good DSR
work.  The structure of articles could vary to some extent
depending on the type of contribution made:  that is, the
applicable quadrant in Figure 3.  For example, work in quad-
rant 1 (invention) may have less to say about kernel theory
than other types of contribution.  Our goal here is to provide
informative structure to DSR thinking, not to limit and con-
strain it.
Further, there are still difficulties in presenting DSR that have
barely been explored here and could be addressed in future
work.  One issue is that the extraction of the key principles
that underlie a design, as compared with parts of the design
that may be more mundane or routine, can be extremely
difficult.  It is recommended that a project logbook be kept
throughout a project to record important design problems and
proposed solutions.  This recording can help with the later
identification of important design principles.  Spradley’s
(1979) recommendations for keeping field notes may be
helpful.  
A second issue is that a genuine new invention is a difficult
goal for DSR research projects and we can expect few contri-
butions to fall in the invention quadrant.  However, explora-
tion for new ideas and artifacts should be encouraged regard-
less of the hurdles.  Research in the invention quadrant can be
difficult to get published as reviewers find it difficult to cope
with the “newness.”  Some typical problems include the
design being insufficiently grounded in kernel theories, the
design being incomplete, the design not being rigorously
352
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37 No. 2/June 2013
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
evaluated, or there being no new contribution to theory made
via the design.  While such concerns may be valid, we would
hope that reviewers and editors can be more accepting of
newness in domains marked by less mature knowledge bases
of problems and solutions.  After all, new knowledge must
begin somewhere.
A third issue is the difficulty of describing the complexities of
an artifact within the confines of a journal article.  As stated
previously, the level of design detail in a journal paper will
vary based on the application domain, the designed artifact,
and the audience to which the presentation is made.  We
envision increased use of online appendices, data repositories,
and executable systems to supplement DSR presentations in
journals.
To conclude, this paper contributes to the IS community
because prior work has not adequately addressed the impor-
tant question that we have tackled here:  How can design
science research make and demonstrate a significant knowl-
edge contribution?  Our goal is to establish some consensus
on guidelines by which DSR research, as it is communicated
to other scientists, can be judged.
Acknowledgments
The authors wish to thank the editors and reviewers of this paper for
their insightful comments that have greatly improved its content and
presentation.  We are indebted to many colleagues and participants
in classes, seminars, and workshops who have contributed to the
development of ideas for this essay.  In particular, we thank David
Jones and Xiaofang Zhou for their valued contributions.
References
Abbasi, A., and Chen, H.  2008.  “CyberGate:  A Design Framework
and System for Text Analysis of Computer-Mediated Commu-
nication,” MIS Quarterly (32:4), pp. 811-838.
Abbasi, A., Zhang, Z., Zimbra, D., Chen, H., and Nunamaker, J.
2010.  “Detecting Fake Websites:  The Contribution of Statistical
Learning Theory,” MIS Quarterly (34:3), pp. 435-461.
Adipat, B., Zhang, D., and Zhou, L.  2011.  The Effects of Tree-
View Based Presentation Adaptation on Mobile Web Browsing,”
MIS Quarterly (35:1), pp. 99-121.
Adomavicius, G., Bockstedt, J. C., Gupta, A.  2008.  “Making Sense
of Technology Trends in the Information Technology Landscape: 
A Design Science Approach,” MIS Quarterly (32:4), pp.
779-810.
Agrawal, R., Imielinski, T., and Swami, A.  1993.  “Mining
Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases,”
Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD Conference, Washington
DC, May.
Baskerville, R., Lyytinen, K., Sambamurthy, V., and Straub, D.
2011.  “A Response to the Design-Oriented Information Systems
Research Memorandum,” European Journal of Information
Systems (20), pp. 11-15.
Bem, D.  2003.  “Writing the Empirical Journal Article,” in The
Compleat Academic:  A Practical Guide for the Beginning Social
Scientist (2nd ed.), J. M. Darley, M. P. Zanna, and H. L. Roediger
III (eds.), Washington, DC:  American Psychological Asso-
ciation.
Bera, P., Burton-Jones, A., and Wand, Y.  2011.  “Guidelines for
Designing Visual Ontologies to Support Knowledge Identi-
fication,” MIS Quarterly (35:4), pp. 883-908.
Berndt, D., Hevner, A., and Studnicki, J.  2003.  “The CATCH Data
Warehouse:  Support for Community Health Care Decision
Making,” Decision Support Systems (35), pp. 367-384.
Carlsson, S.  2010.  “Design Science Research in Information
Systems:  A Critical Realist Approach,” Chapter 15 in Design
Research in Information Systems, A. Hevner and S. Chatterjee
(eds.), New York:  Springer Publishing.
Chaturvedi, A. R., Dolk, D. R., and Drnevish, P. L.  2011.  “Design
Principles for Virtual Worlds,” MIS Quarterly (35:3), pp.
673-684.
Chen, P.-Y., Kataria, G., and Krishnan, R.  2011.  “Correlated Fail-
ures, Diversification, and Information Security Risk Manage-
ment,” MIS Quarterly (35:2), pp. 397-422.
Colquitt, J., and Zapata-Phelan, C.  2007.  “Trends in Theory
Building and Theory Testing:  A Five-Decade Study of the
Academy of Management Journal,” Academy of Management
Journal (50:6), pp. 1281-1303.
Cook, T., and Campbell, D.  1979.  Quasi-Experimentation Design
and Analysis for Field Settings, Boston, MA:  Houghton Mifflin.
Davis, G.  2005.  “Advising and Supervising,” in Research in
Information Systems:  A Handbook for Research Supervisors and
Their Students, D. Avison and J. Pries-Heje (eds.), Amsterdam:
Elsevier Butterworth Heinemann.
Feldman, D.  2004.  “Editorial:  The Devil Is in the Details: 
Converting Good Research into Publishable Articles,” Journal of
Management (30:1), pp. 1-6.
Gill, G., and Bhattacherjee, A.  2009.  “Whom Are We Informing: 
Issues and Recommendations for MIS Research from an
Informing Sciences Perspective,” MIS Quarterly (33:2), pp
217-235.
Goldkuhl, G.  2002.  “Anchoring Scientific Abstractions—
Ontological and Linguistic Determination Following Socio-
Instrumental Pragmatism,” European Conference on Research
Methods in Business and Management, Reading, UK, pp. 29-30.
Gould, S., and Vrba, E.  1982.  “Exaptation—A Missing Term in the
Science of Form,” Paleobiology (8:1), pp. 4-15.
Gregor, S.  2006.  “The Nature of Theory in Information Systems,”
MIS Quarterly (30:3), pp. 611-642.
Gregor, S., and Jones, D.  2007.  “The Anatomy of a Design
Theory,” Journal of the Association of Information Systems (8:5),
pp. 312-335.  
Habermas, J.  1984.  Theory of Communicative Action:  Reason and
the Rationalization of Society (Vol. 1), London:  Heinemann.
Hevner, A.  2007.  “A Three Cycle View of Design Science
Research,” Scandinavian Journal of Information Systems (19:2),
pp. 87-92.
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37No. 2/June 2013
353
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
Hevner, A., and Chatterjee, S.  2010.  Design Research in Informa-
tion Systems, New York:  Springer Publishing, 
Hevner, A., March, S., Park, J., and Ram, S.  (2004).  “Design
Science in Information Systems Research,” MIS Quarterly
(28:1), pp. 75-105.
Iivari, J.  1983.  Contributions to the Theoretical Foundations of
Systemeering Research and the PICOCO Model, Oulu, Finland: 
Institute of Data Processing Science, University of Oulu.
Iivari, J.  2007.  “A Paradigmatic Analysis of Information Systems
as a Design Science,” Scandinavian Journal of Information
Systems (19:2), pp. 39-64.
Inmon, W.  1992.  Building the Data Warehouse, New York:  Wiley
and Sons Publishers.
Kohler, T., Fueller, J., Matzler, K., and Stieger, D.  2011.  “Co-
creation in Virtual Worlds:  The Design of the User Experience,”
MIS Quarterly (35:3), pp. 773-788.
Kuechler, W., and Vaishnavi, V.  2008a.  “The Emergence of
Design Science Research in Information Systems in North
America,” Journal of Design Research (7:1), pp. 1-16.  
Kuechler, W., and Vaishnavi, V.  2008b.  “On Theory Development
in Design Science Research:  Anatomy of a Research Project,”
European Journal of Information Systems (17), pp. 489-504.
Kuechler, W., and Vaishnavi, V.  2012.  “A Framework for Theory
Development in Design Science Research:  Multiple Perspec-
tives,” Journal of the AIS (13:6), pp. 395-423.
Lee, A.  2001.  “Editor’s Comments:  MIS Quarterly’s Editorial
Policies and Practices,” MIS Quarterly (25:1), pp. iii-vii.
Lee, J., Wyner, G. M., and Pentland, B. T.  2008.  “Process
Grammar as a Tool for Business Process Design,” MIS Quarterly
(32:4), pp. 757-778.
MacKenzie, S., Podsakoff, p., and Podsakoff , N.  2011.  “Construct
Measurement and Validation Procedures in MIS and Behavioral
Research:  Integrating New and Existing Techniques,” MIS
Quarterly (35:2) pp. 293-334.
March, S., and Smith, G.  1995.  “Design and Natural Science
Research on Information Technology,” Decision Support Systems
(15), pp. 251-266.
Markus, M., Majchrzak, L., and Gasser, L.  2002.  “A Design
Theory for Systems that Support Emergent Knowledge Pro-
cesses,” MIS Quarterly (26:3), pp. 179-212.
McKenney, J., and Keen, P.  1974.  “How Managers’ Minds Work,”
Harvard Business Review, May-June 1974, pp. 79-90.
McLaren, T., Head, M., Yuan., Y., and Chan, Y.  2011.  “A Multi-
level Model for Measuring Fit between a Firm’s Competitive
Strategies and Information Systems Capabilities,” MIS Quarterly
(35:4), pp. 909-929.
Merton, R.  1968.  Social Theory and Social Structure (enlarged
ed.), New York:  The Free Press.  
Mokyr, J.  2002.  The Gifts of Athena:  Historical Origins of the
Knowledge Economy, Princeton, NJ:  Princeton University Press.
Moody, D.  2009.  “The ‘Physics’ of Notations:  Toward a Scientific
Basis for Constructing Visual Notations in Software Engi-
neering,” IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering (35:6), pp.
756-779.
Myers, M., and Baskerville, R. L.  2009.  “Commentary on Gill and
Bhattacherjee:  Is There an Informing Crisis?,” MIS Quarterly
(33:4), pp. 663-665.
Nagel, E.  1979.  The Structure of Science Problems in the Logic of
Scientific Explanation, Indianapolis, IN:  Hackett Publishing Co.
Neumann, W. L.  2006.  Basics of Social Research:  Qualitative and
Quantitative Approaches  (2nd ed.), Columbus, OH:  Pearson.
Niederman, F., and March, S.  2012.  “Design Science and the
Accumulation of Knowledge in the Information Systems
Discipline,” ACM Transactions on MIS (3:1), Article 1.
Nunamaker, J., and Briggs, R.  2011.  “Toward a Broader Vision for
Information Systems,” ACM Transactions on MIS (2:4), Article
20.
Nunamaker, J., Chen, M., and Purdin, T.  1990-91.  “Systems
Development in Information Systems Research,” Journal of
Management Information Systems (7:3), pp. 89-106.
Nunamaker, J., Dennis, A., Valacich, J., and Vogel, D.  1991a. 
“Information Technology to Support Negotiating Groups: 
Generating Options for Mutual Gain,” Management Science
(37:10), pp. 1325-1346.
Nunamaker, J., Dennis, A., Valacich, J., Vogel, D., and George, J. 
1991b.  “Electronic Meeting Systems to Support Group Work,”
Communications of the ACM (34:7), pp. 40-61.
Nunamaker, J., Derrick, D., Elkins, A., Burgoon, J., and Patton, M. 
2011.  “Embodied Conversational Agent-Based Kiosk for Auto-
mated Interviewing,” Journal of Management Information
Systems (28:1), pp. 17-48.
Österle, H., Becker, J., Frank, U., Hess, T., Karagiannis, D., Krcmar,
H., Loos, P., Mertens, P., Oberweis, A., and Sinz, E. J.  2011. 
“Memorandum on Design Oriented Information Systems Re-
search,” European Journal of Information Systems (20), pp. 7-10.
Parsons, J., and Wand, Y.  2008.  “Using Cognitive Principles to
Guide Classification in Information Systems Modeling,” MIS
Quarterly (32:4), pp. 839-868.
Peffers, K., Tuunanen, T., Rothenberger, M., and Chatterjee, S. 
2008.  “A Design Science Research Methodology for Information
Systems Research,” Journal of MIS (24:3), pp. 45-77.
Perry, C.  1998.  “A Structured Approach for Presenting Theses,”
Australasian Journal of Marketing (6:1), pp. 63-85.
Popper, K.  1978.  “Three Worlds.  The Tanner Lectures on Human
Values,” lecture delivered at the University of Michigan.
Pries-Heje, J., and Baskerville, R.  2008.  “The Design Theory
Nexus,” MIS Quarterly (32:4), pp. 731-756.
Pries-Heje, J., Baskerville, R., and Venable, J.  2008.  “Strategies for
Design Science Research Evaluation,” in Proceedings of the 16th
European Conference on Information Systems, Galway, Ireland,
Paper 87.
Puhakainen, P., and Siponen, M.  2010.  “Improving Employees’
Compliance Through Information Systems Security Training: 
An Action Research Study,” MIS Quarterly (34:4), pp. 757-778.
Purao, S.  2002.  “Design Research in the Technology of Informa-
tion Systems:  Truth or Dare,” Working Paper, Department of
Computer Information Systems, Georgia State University.
Rockart, J., and DeLong, D.  1988.  Executive Support Systems:  The
Emergence of Top Management Computer Use, Homewood, IL,
Business One Irwin.
Savransky, S.  2000.  Engineering of Creativity, Boca Raton, FL,
CRC Press.
Scott-Morton, M.  1967.  “Computer-Driven Visual Display
Devices:  Their Impact on the Management Decision-Making
Process,” Unpublished Ph.D. Thesis, Harvard Business School.
354
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37 No. 2/June 2013
\nGregor & Hevner/Positioning Design Science Research for Maximum Impact
Sein, M., Henfredsson, O., Purao, S., Rossi, M., and Lindgren, R. 
2011.  “Action Design Research,” Management Information
Systems Quarterly (35:1), pp. 37-56.
Simon, H.  1996.  The Sciences of the Artificial (3rd ed)., Cambridge,
MA:  MIT Press.
Sørenson, C.  2002.  “This Is Not an Article—Just Some Thoughts
on How to Write One,” Working Paper No. 121, Department of
Information Systems, London School of Economics
(http://www.carstensorensen.com/attachments/ThisIsStillNot
AnArticlePre0.pdf).
Spradley, J.  1979.  The Ethnographic Interview, New York:  Holt
Rinehart and Winston.
Sternberg, R., Kaufman, J., and Pretz, J.  2002.  The Creativity
Conundrum:  A Propulsion Model of Kinds of Creative Contribu-
tion, New York:  Psychology Press.  
Stokes, D.  1997.  Pasteur’s Quadrant:  Basic Science and Techno-
logical Innovation, Washington, DC:  Brookings Institute Press.
Straub, D.  2009.  “Editor’s Comments:  Why Top Journals Accept
Your Paper,” MIS Quarterly (33:3), pp. iii-x.
Straub, D., and Ang, S.  2011.  “Editor’s Comments:  Rigor and
Relevance in IS Research:  Redefining the Debate and a Call for
Future Research,” MIS Quarterly (35:1), pp. iii-ix.
Straub, D., Ang, S., and Evaristo, 1994.  “Normative Standards for
MIS Research,” The Data Base for Advances in Information
Systems (25:1), pp. 21-34.
Sutton, R., and Staw, B.  1995.  “What Theory is Not,” Adminis-
trative Sciences Quarterly (40:3), pp. 371-384.
Vaishnavi, V., and Kuechler, W.  2008.  Design Science Research
Methods and Patterns:  Innovating Information and Communi-
cation Technology.  Boston, MA:  Auerbach Publications.
Walls, J., Widemeyer, G., and El Sawy, O.  1992.  “Building an
Information System Design Theory for Vigilant EIS,” Informa-
tion Systems Research (3:1), pp. 36-59.
Walls, J., Widemeyer, G., and El Sawy, O.  2004.  “Assessing
Information System Design Theory in Perspective:  How Useful
Was Our 1992 Rendition?,” Journal of Information Technology
Theory and Practice (6:2), pp. 43-58.
Weick, K.  1995.  “What Theory Is Not, Theorizing Is,” Adminis-
trative Science Quarterly (40:3), pp. 385-390.
Williams, G., and  Simoff, S.  (eds.).  2006.  Data Mining:  Theory,
Methodology, Techniques, and Applications, New York:
Springer.
Wilson, J.  2002.  “Responsible Authorship and Peer Review,”
Science and Engineering Ethics (8:2), pp. 155-174.
Zobel, J.  2005.  Writing for Computer Science (2nd ed.), London: 
Springer-Verlag.
About the Authors
Shirley Gregor is Professor of Information Systems at the Austra-
lian National University, Canberra, where she is a Director of the
National Centre for Information Systems Research.  Professor
Gregor’s research interests include the adoption and strategic use of
information and communications technologies, intelligent systems,
human–computer interaction and the philosophy of technology.  She
has published in journals such as MIS Quarterly, Journal of the
Association of Information Systems, International Journal of Elec-
tronic Commerce, International Journal of Human Computer
Studies, European Journal of Information Systems, and Information
Technology & People.  Professor Gregor was made an Officer of the
Order of Australia in June 2005 for services as an educator and
researcher in the field of information systems and for work in e-
commerce in the agribusiness sector.  She is a Fellow of the
Australian Computer Society and a Fellow of the Association for
Information Systems.  
Alan R. Hevner is an Eminent Scholar and Professor in the
Information Systems and Decision Sciences Department in the
College of Business at the University of South Florida.  He holds the
Citigroup/Hidden River Chair of Distributed Technology.  Professor
Hevner’s areas of research interest include information systems
development, software engineering, distributed database systems,
healthcare systems, and service-oriented computing.  He has pub-
lished over 200 research papers on these topics and has consulted for
a number of Fortune 500 companies.  Professor Hevner received a
Ph.D. in Computer Science from Purdue University.  He has held
faculty positions at the University of Maryland and the University
of Minnesota.  Professor Hevner is a Fellow of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and is a
member of Association for Information Systems, the Association for
Computing Machinery, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers, and the Institute for Operations Research and the
Management Sciences.
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37No. 2/June 2013
355
\n356
MIS Quarterly Vol. 37 No. 2/June 2013
View publication stats
View publication stats
