Academic Editor: Antonio Gil Bravo
Received: 12 April 2025
Revised: 1 May 2025
Accepted: 7 May 2025
Published: 13 May 2025
Citation: Pan, Y.; Zhang, K.; Zhang, J.;
Mei, N. Research on the
Reconstruction of the Temperature
Field in Two-Dimensional
Steady-State Thermal Conductivity
Based on Physics-Informed Neural
Networks. Eng 2025, 6, 99. https://
doi.org/10.3390/eng6050099
Copyright: © 2025 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license
(https://creativecommons.org/
licenses/by/4.0/).
Article
Research on the Reconstruction of the Temperature Field in
Two-Dimensional Steady-State Thermal Conductivity Based on
Physics-Informed Neural Networks
Yufan Pan, Ke Zhang, Ji Zhang and Ning Mei *
College of Engineering, Ocean University of China, 239 Songling Road, Qingdao 266100, China;
panyufan2000@163.com (Y.P.); zhangke2345@stu.ouc.edu.cn (K.Z.)
* Correspondence: nmei@ouc.edu.cn
Abstract: This study investigates a simulation-based approach to the inverse problem of
two-dimensional steady-state heat conduction in flat plates by employing Physics-Informed
Neural Networks (PINNs). The primary objective is to reconstruct the temperature field
and deduce unknown boundary conditions using limited labeled data sourced from con-
ventional numerical methods. This work specifically validates the methodology using
simulated data with known original conditions, rather than addressing truly unknown
boundary conditions in real-world scenarios. By leveraging PINNs, the approach integrates
physical laws with data-driven learning, facilitating the efficient inversion of boundary
conditions and precise reconstruction of the temperature field. Within a temperature range
of 10 ◦C to 40 ◦C, the method consistently achieves an average relative error of less than
10% and maintains an absolute error within 1 ◦C across the computational domain. By
optimizing the distribution of sample points without increasing their quantity, the aver-
age relative error is further reduced by approximately 1%, thereby enhancing inversion
accuracy. Additionally, implementing an adaptive weight adjustment strategy, based on
learning rate annealing, further refines the method, reducing the maximum absolute error
by 0.4 ◦C and the average relative error by 2% when compared to traditional PINNs. This
research demonstrates the capability of PINNs to provide a rapid and effective solution for
inverse heat conduction problems, establishing a foundation for their potential application
in addressing complex inverse heat transfer challenges.
Keywords: physics-informed neural networks; heat transfer inverse problem; deep learning;
boundary conditions; two-dimensional steady-state thermal conductivity
1. Introduction
The development of new techniques for solving inverse heat transfer problems (IHTPs)
is a fundamental aspect of modern heat transfer. Many scientific and industrial applications
involve physical processes that make it difficult or even impossible to directly measure
the parameters involved. Alternatively, the inverse analysis in heat transfer involves
reversing the classical direct (forward) problem by estimating the physical cause (such as a
boundary heat flux, for example) using data describing the thermal effect (the temperature
field of the investigated body) [1]. In many scientific and engineering fields, such as
energy transmission, material processing, and the heat dissipation of electronic devices,
it is of paramount importance to accurately understand the temperature distribution
inside objects and the boundary thermal conditions. The inverse heat conduction problem
aims to infer unknown boundary conditions, thermophysical parameters, or heat source
Eng 2025, 6, 99
https://doi.org/10.3390/eng6050099
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
2 of 20
distributions based on partially measurable information (such as limited temperature
measurement data). The resulting solution results play an irreplaceable role in optimizing
system design, ensuring the safe and stable operation of equipment, and improving energy
utilization efficiency.
Partial differential equations (PDEs) are an important tool for representing the physical
laws of heat transfer processes. The essence of IHTP can be explained as solving PDE with
missing terms in heat transfer processes. The research methods of IHTP can be roughly
divided into three categories during the development over the past few decades, namely the
Tikhonov Regularization Method, gradient-based optimization algorithms, and gradient-
free optimization algorithms. Glasko et al. [2] introduced the Tikhonov Regularization
Method into the solution of IHTP and proposed a special regularization algorithm for the
Neumann boundary condition of the nonlinear heat conduction equation. They also verified
the accuracy of the results and the computational efficiency through numerical simulation.
Artyukhin and Rumyantsev [3] used the Steepest Descent Method (SDM) to predict the
boundary heat flux distribution of multi-dimensional heat transfer systems. Huang and
Chen [4] focused on the boundary conditions of IHTP based on the Conjugate Gradient
Method (CGM). Duda and Taler [5] determined the boundary conditions and temperature
field of the water-cooled wall by combining the Levenberg–Marquardt (L-M) algorithm
with experiments. Cortés et al. [6] inversely deduced the heat source temperature of the
protective hot plate via the Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) algorithm. Kim and Baek [7]
inversely deduced the radiation coefficient of two-dimensional irregular geometries via
the Genetic Algorithm (GA). Sablani [8] modeled the surface heat transfer coefficient and
temperature measurement information and inversely deduced the heat transfer coefficient
by training the Artificial Neural Network (ANN).
For the Tikhonov Regularization Method, the determination of its regularization pa-
rameters requires extensive formula derivation and calculation, and, up to now, a universal
method for selecting regularization parameters has still not been found. As for the gradient-
based optimization algorithm, the convergence speed and accuracy of its solutions are
restricted by the initial values and the amount of deterministic information. In practical
engineering applications, there are various nonlinear parameters, which pose difficulties
for theoretical model construction and calculation and limit their application in accurately
solving practical problems. Currently, the non-gradient intelligent optimization algorithms
combined with finite element solutions are mostly adopted in the research of IHTP. How-
ever, due to the limitation on the solution speed of finite element solvers, it takes a long time
to solve a model once, which results in an increase in the time-consuming search process of
intelligent optimization methods and, thus, restricts their development to some extent.
In recent years, with the engineering application of artificial intelligence, researchers
have attempted to solve physical problems using deep learning methods and apply their
prediction ability for unknown physical parameters to the solution of forward and inverse
problems of relevant physical processes. This has given birth to the branch based on deep
learning in non-gradient intelligent optimization algorithms. This branch does not require
complicated mesh division and formula derivation. Instead, it uses artificial intelligence
algorithms to calculate unknown parameters or boundary conditions and complete the
inversion, greatly reducing the pre-processing work and calculation time and significantly
lowering the usage cost and calculation cost. This branch can be further subdivided into
three categories. The first category is the data-driven method that only learns laws through
a large amount of labeled data and does not need to use physical equations at all, such
as Convolutional Neural Networks [9] (CNNs) and the data-driven feedforward neural
network [10] (PDE-Net). The second category is the physics-driven method that does not
rely on any data but constrains the neural network through prior physical knowledge and
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
3 of 20
makes it gradually approach the solution of the equation through continuous iteration,
for example, the unsupervised feedforward deep residual neural network based on the
Fully Connected Neural Network (FCNN) proposed by Nabian et al. [11] and the “hard
boundary constraint” neural network proposed by Sun et al. [12]. The third category is the
Physics-Informed method that combines the Physics-Driven method with the data-driven
method. It can not only reduce the required labeled data but also improve the network
generalized ability, achieving the effect of training a neural network well with a small
amount of labeled data. For example, the Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs)
method proposed by Raissi et al. [13], as a typical meshless method with high innovation in
the Physics-Informed method, has attracted particular attention from researchers. Applying
it to IHTP problems is a relatively novel research method. Since it is currently in the initial
research stage, many scholars have put forward their own terms for the same definition,
and their classification methods and bases for their classification methods and criteria also
vary. Some scholars believe that PINNs do not need to rely on labeled data under certain
circumstances and belong to unsupervised learning, so PINNs belong to the physical
driving method. However, more scholars classify PINNs into the physical constraint
method by comparing the working principles and performance of PINNs in the presence
and absence of labeled data [14].
In this study, we address the inversion problem of two-dimensional steady-state heat
conduction in flat plates using the innovative Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs)
approach. Our analysis emphasizes both the efficiency and accuracy of solutions, with
extensive validation conducted across a temperature range of 10 ◦C to 40 ◦C. We investigate
and delve into the effects of different sample point selection strategies and the adaptive
scaling of weights on inversion outcomes. Our research introduces several novel aspects
that set it apart from existing methodologies. The primary innovation is the integration of
optimized sampling strategies and adaptively scaled weights, refined through learning rate
annealing, to improve inversion accuracy and efficiency. By strategically optimizing sample
point locations based on the magnitude and distribution of absolute errors, and dynamically
adjusting the weights of various loss terms, our proposed method considerably reduces
both the average relative error and the maximum absolute error compared to traditional
PINNs. This novel approach not only enhances solution accuracy for ill-posed inverse
problems but also exhibits robust generalization capabilities across a broad temperature
range. The results indicate that the average relative error is maintained within 10%, and the
absolute error at each point is kept within 1 ◦C, all while achieving a significant reduction
in computational time compared to conventional methods.
Compared to traditional methods for solving inverse heat conduction problems, our
PINN approach offers several distinct advantages. Unlike Tikhonov Regularization [2],
which requires careful selection of regularization parameters, PINNs naturally regularize
the ill-posed problem through physical constraints. While gradient-based methods such as
CGM [4] and L-M algorithm [5] depend heavily on initial conditions and require repeated
FEM solutions, our approach converges efficiently (0.072 s per iteration) without mesh
generation. Compared to genetic algorithms and Particle Swarm Optimization [6] that
require numerous FEM evaluations, our method achieves comparable accuracy (errors
below 0.6 ◦C) using only 0.2% of domain sampling points, significantly reducing both
computational cost and experimental data requirements. This efficiency, combined with
our adaptive weight scaling strategy, represents a notable advancement over previous
neural network applications in heat transfer [8] that required extensive training datasets.
Our primary contributions are threefold: (1) data efficiency—by employing gradient-
sensitive sampling, we reduce the required measurement points from the typical 1–5%
down to ~0.2%, a one-order-of-magnitude decrease; (2) computational efficiency—with
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
4 of 20
adaptive weight scaling via learning rate annealing and a dramatically reduced sample set,
we achieve convergence on a CPU in 0.072 s per iteration (≈2 h per case), roughly halving
training time compared to GPU-accelerated baselines; and (3) accuracy—our method lowers
the average relative error to below 6% and the maximum absolute error to under 0.6 ◦C,
representing improvements of ≳2% in relative accuracy and 40% in absolute accuracy over
prior PINN studies.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we introduce the physical
and mathematical model for two-dimensional steady-state thermal conductivity. Section 3
provides an overview of the PINN methodology. Section 4 describes labeled data acqui-
sition, presents our inverse problem results, verifies generalization across temperature
ranges, and investigates the effects of sampling location and adaptive weight scaling.
Finally, Section 5 summarizes our conclusions and outlines future work.
2. Two-Dimensional Steady-State Thermal Conductivity Model and the
Description of Inverse Problem
The two-dimensional steady-state thermal conduction model is a classic model in
the study of heat transfer. In the two-dimensional heat conduction problem, the inherent
laws of its internal temperature field can be described by the law of conservation of energy
and Fourier’s law and are specifically expressed in the two-dimensional form of the heat
conduction differential equation, i.e.,
ρc∂T
∂t = λ
∂2T
∂x2 + ∂2T
∂y2

+ Φ
(1)
where x and y are the abscissa and ordinate of the plane, respectively, with a unit of m; ρ is
the material density, with a unit of kg/m3; c is the specific heat capacity of the material,
with a unit of J/(kg · ◦C); t is the time, with a unit of S; T is the temperature of the object
at time t, with a unit of ◦C; λ is the thermal conductivity of the material, with a unit of
w/(m · ◦C); Φ is the heat generated by the internal heat source in the unit space per unit
time, with a unit of w/m3. When the above heat conduction process is simplified to the
steady-state heat conduction without an internal heat source, the heat conduction process
is independent of time, density, specific heat capacity and thermal conductivity. At this
time, the equation can be simplified to the Laplace equation, i.e.,
∂2T
∂x2 + ∂2T
∂y2 = 0
(2)
For the above problem, a two-dimensional flat plate of size x ∈[0, 1], y ∈[0, 0.5] is
constructed (Figure 1).
Since the Laplace equation does not contain a time term, the initial condition is not con-
sidered when solving it. It is stipulated that the bottom surface has a constant temperature
of 25 ◦C, and the other three sides have a constant temperature of 0 ◦C. The boundary con-
ditions can be expressed as follows: T(0, y) = 0; T(1, y) = 0; T(x, 0) = 25; T(x, 0.5) = 0.
Under this configuration, all boundary conditions are the Dirichlet boundary condi-
tion, which belongs to the forward problem where all boundary conditions are known.
Its numerical solution can be easily obtained by using Standard Computational Fluid
Dynamics (CFD) methods. However, in practical heat transfer applications, it is often
difficult to accurately measure and simulate all thermal boundary conditions. This is
because obtaining complete boundary data requires extensive precision instrumentation
and sensor networks, which present both technical and economic challenges at industrial
scales. It is particularly challenging to acquire accurate boundary conditions for complex
geometries, high temperatures, or inaccessible surfaces, a difficulty that has been one of
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
5 of 20
the main motivations for studying the inverse heat conduction problem [1]. When the
thermal boundary conditions of a physical process are unknown, it will lead to an ill-posed
boundary value problem [15] of the energy equation. Due to the structural differences
between the multi-dimensional characteristics of the model space and the finite dimensions
of the data space, there may be problems regarding the uniqueness or existence of the in-
version results [16]. The CFD method cannot independently solve such ill-posed problems
and requires a cumbersome combination of data assimilation methods and heat transfer
solvers for solution, and it takes a long time to converge [17]. The proposal of the PINNs
method provides a simple way to solve the inverse problem of heat transfer with unknown
boundary conditions under the background of artificial intelligence for such problems:
use the PINNs method to jointly construct a solution model and utilize a small amount of
temperature measurement point data and the mathematical model to simultaneously infer
the temperature field and thermal boundary conditions.
Figure 1. Physical model of two-dimensional steady-state thermal conductivity process under
rectangular coordinates.
When the temperature boundary condition at its bottom is missing, this problem is
defined as a boundary inverse problem with unknown boundary conditions; that is, the
boundary condition of one boundary is unknown, and it is expected to inversely obtain
the temperature field distribution and the missing boundary condition through a small
amount of labeled data, the governing equation and the remaining known boundary
conditions. Considering the bottom temperature boundary condition as a trainable pa-
rameter, concurrently, the boundary conditions of this inverse problem are represented as,
T(0, y) = 0; T(1, y) = 0; T(x, 0.5) = 0.
3. Methods of Physics-Informed Neural Networks
The PINNs method mainly constructs the sum of residuals, which means the loss
function of the neural network by establishing the identities of the physical prior knowledge
(governing equations, boundary conditions, and initial conditions) of the physical process.
And it makes the solution of the neural network approximate the physical process by
minimizing the loss function. The key issue in using the PINNs method to solve heat
transfer processes is the determination and expression of PDE. For general PDE, the basic
form can be expressed as
ut + Nx[u; λ] = 0, x ∈Ω, t ∈[0, T]
(3)
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
6 of 20
u(x, 0) = h(x),
x ∈Ω
(4)
u(x, t) = g(x, t), x ∈∂Ω, t ∈[0, T]
(5)
where ut is the partial derivative of u with respect to t; Nx[u; λ] is a general linear or
nonlinear differential operator parameterized by λ, and it has different expanded forms
for different partial differential equations; x and t are the spatial coordinate and time
coordinate, respectively; Ωand ∂Ωrepresent the computational domain and the boundary,
respectively; u(x, t) is the solution of the partial differential equation, with the initial
condition h(x) and the boundary condition g(x, t).
Subsequently, the PINNs method constructs a framework of a fully connected neural
network. Taking the spatio-temporal coordinate in the partial differential equation as inputs,
after iterative training of the hidden layers, it utilizes the automatic differentiation technol-
ogy [18] in the deep learning framework and applies the chain rule of derivatives to calculate
the partial derivative terms in the equation and then outputs the approximate solution of
the equation u(x, t; θ), where θ represents the trainable parameters of the neural network,
including weights, biases, active functions and so on. After the network construction is
completed, the PINNs method is trained by minimizing the loss function, i.e.,
LTotal(θ) = ωDataLData(θ) + ωPDELPDE(θ) + ωbcLbc(θ) + ωicLic(θ)
(6)
where LTotal is the composite loss, which is the final output loss by the neural network in
each round of training and represents the final quality of the neural network’s calculation
results. LData is the loss of labeled data, that is, the error between the data at the sample
points and the data at the same coordinates in the neural network, and it is also the
core error in the traditional data-driven neural network algorithm. LPDE is the loss of
the partial differential equation, that is, the error between the PDE and the numerical
solution calculated by the neural network. The smaller the value of LPDE is, the closer the
approximate solution of the neural network is to the real solution of the PDE. Lbc is the
loss of boundary conditions, that is, the error between the real boundary conditions of the
physical process and the solution calculated by the neural network at the boundary. Lic is
the loss of initial conditions, that is, the error between the initial conditions and the solution
calculated by the neural network in the initial situation. ωData, ωPED, ωbc and ωic are the
hyperparameter weights of the corresponding items of the network, respectively, which are
used to balance the contributions of different loss function items to the total loss function.
Generally, they are adjusted according to the training situation, and they can be kept at
their default values when solving simple problems. Embedding the partial differential
equation, initial conditions and boundary conditions as loss items into the loss function
can make the network conform to the physical laws expressed by the partial differential
equation and also meet the constraints of the initial conditions and boundary conditions
while achieving the convergence effect. This is the manifestation of the Physics-Informed
nature of the PINNs method.
During the construction process of the loss function, each loss term is defined by the
Mean-square Error (MSE), i.e.,
MSE = 1
N
N
∑
i=1
|yi −ˆyi|2
(7)
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
7 of 20
where N is the number of samples, and yi and ˆyi are the true value and the predicted value
of the i sample, respectively. The smaller the value of MSE, the more accurate the solution
of the neural network is. The general expressions of each loss term can be represented as
LData =
1
NData
NData
∑
i=1
u

xi, ti
−ui
Data

2
(8)
LPDE =
1
NPDE
NPDE
∑
i=1
ut

xi, ti
+ Nx
h
u

xi, tii
2
(9)
Lbc =
1
Nbc
Nbc
∑
i=1
u

xi, ti
−gi
2
(10)
Lic =
1
Nic
Nic
∑
i=1
u

xi, ti
−hi
2
(11)
After training the neural network by optimizing the hyperparameter weights to
minimize LTotal, the PINNs method can estimate the solution of the partial differential
equation for any coordinate point in the spatio-temporal solution domain [19]. In the
actual solution process of the PINNs method, the right-hand-side terms of the loss function
Equation (6) will be adjusted according to the types of equations and the actual situations.
For example, when solving the Poisson equation, the Lic term will be ignored, and when
there are no labeled data, the LData term will be ignored.
4. PINNs for Inverse Heat Transfer Problems with Unknown Boundary
The CPU used in the training process related to this problem is the 12th Gen Intel(R)
Core(TM) i9-12900H, which has 14 cores and 20 threads, with a base frequency of 2.5 GHz
and a maximum turbo frequency of 5 GHz. The RAM memory is 16 GB, and it can run
normally without the assistance of GPU acceleration when conducting local code tests.
4.1. The Acquisition of Labeled Data
The acquisition of labeled data for the inverse problem model can be accomplished
through Fluent finite element simulation experiments. First, the physical model is con-
structed using the ANSYS 2022 R1 Workbench, and then it is meshed with quadrilateral
meshes in Fluent. A total of 10,368 nodes and 10,153 finite elements units are generated.
The simulation experiment is configured according to the complete boundary con-
ditions and energy equations in Section 2. The simulation is initiated from the initial
conditions and terminated when the temperature reaches a steady state. Subsequently, a
temperature distribution contour map, as shown in Figure 2, can be obtained. The results of
the contour map indicate that, under the combined action of the four boundary conditions,
the overall temperature distribution after heating is symmetrical about the position where
x = 0.5. When the observation surface shifts from the symmetrical plane to the left and
right sides, the temperature gradient near the heating surface gradually increases, and the
left and right walls exert an obvious impact on the overall temperature distribution, which
is consistent with the heat conduction law.
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
8 of 20
Figure 2. Temperature contour map obtained from the simulation experiment.
After obtaining the simulation results, we sample the temperature data of 20 coor-
dinate points (approximately 0.2% of finite element nodes) within the plane. In order to
improve the accuracy of the model while ensuring universality, restrictions are placed on
the positions of the sample points. We draw a vertical line at x = 0.5, and then a horizontal
line is drawn at y = 0.25, so that the two lines intersect at the center point of the solution
domain, and the solution domain is evenly divided into four symmetrical and mutually
independent regions. The four sub-regions are named as I, II, III and IV in the order from
left to right and from top to bottom. Fixed points are taken at the four vertices; eight posi-
tions are evenly sampled on the four boundaries, and four positions are randomly sampled
within the plane. The sample points are represented by ‘x’ in the figure, among which the
sample points at the vertices and boundaries are colored red and those within the plane are
colored black. The final sampling results are shown in Figure 3. Currently, there are three
sample points on the boundary of each sub-region and two inside.
Figure 3. Diagrams of temperature sample points and solution domain partitioning with nomenclature.
Store the coordinate information and temperature data of the sample points into the
temperature database established based on MySQL to complete the acquisition of labeled
data to facilitate the subsequent invocation during the inversion calculation.
4.2. Inversion of Boundary Conditions and Temperature Field Based on PINNs Method
For this problem, the network structure illustrated in Figure 4 is set up. The spatial
coordinates x and y are taken as inputs, and the object temperature T is the output. The
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
9 of 20
network consists of eight hidden layers, with sixteen neurons in each layer. The tanh
function is used as the activation function for all of them. The Adam optimizer is used for
optimization. The initial learning rate is set to 0.01, and a polynomial decay strategy [20]
with a multiplication factor of 0.8 is adopted to dynamically adjust the learning rate in
units of every 10,000 iterations. The loss function is the sum of the differential equation
loss, the data loss and the boundary condition loss.
Figure 4. Network architecture used for solving the two-dimensional steady-state thermal conductiv-
ity differential equation with PINNs method.
In the PINNs framework, automatic differentiation is a key component that allows the
neural network to compute derivatives of the output (temperature T) with respect to the
inputs (spatial coordinates x, y). After the neural network outputs the temperature field
T(x,y), the automatic differentiation engine uses the computational graph and chain rule
to first calculate the first-order derivatives ∂T/∂x and ∂T/∂y and then further compute
the second-order derivatives ∂2T/∂x2 and ∂2T/∂y2. These second-order derivatives are
directly used to calculate the residual of the Laplace equation (∂2T/∂x2 + ∂2T/∂y2), thereby
constructing the PDE loss term. Unlike traditional numerical methods, PINNs do not re-
quire finite differences or other numerical approximations to calculate these derivatives but,
instead, obtain exact derivative values directly through the neural network’s computational
graph, enabling physical laws to be directly embedded into the learning process.
The partial differential equation to be solved in this problem involves first-order and
second-order partial derivatives and does not consider the time term. Set the weight ωnn
of each loss term to 1 and use the default weights and biases of the optimizer. The loss
function can be expressed as
LTotal = LData + LPDE + Lbc
(12)
LData =
1
NData
NData
∑
i=1
u

xi, yi
−ui
Data

2
(13)
LPDE =
1
NPDE
NPDE
∑
i=1

∂2T
∂x2 + ∂2T
∂y2

2
(14)
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
10 of 20
Lbc =
1
Nbc
Nbc
∑
i=1

|u(0, y)|2 + |u(1, y)|2 + |u(x, 0.5)|2
(15)
Since the gradients between different boundary conditions in this problem are rela-
tively large, in order to increase the stability of the network, the number of iterations is
set to 100,000 rounds, and “hard constraints” are added at the boundaries. It is stipulated
that the inversion results of the network do not exceed the upper and lower limits of
the set boundary conditions to ensure that the calculations of the PINNs method at the
boundaries do not deviate from the constraints of physical laws [21]. The absolute error
of each point in the computational domain and the average relative error over the entire
domain are selected as indicators to evaluate the performance of the neural network in
the temperature field inversion prediction [22]. Since the PINNs method belongs to a
stochastic optimization method, its results will be affected by network initialization and
random parameter settings, and it cannot be guaranteed that each training result is the
global minimum [23]. For the non-convex optimization problem such as parameter training,
ten rounds of training are carried out in this problem, and the best result is selected as
the training result. During the training phase, the average time required for each solution
is two hours, which translates to an average iteration time of 0.072 s per iteration. In
comparison to conventional methods that require integration with finite element solvers,
this remarkable improvement significantly enhances the computational efficiency of the
IHTP. The final temperature field calculation results are shown in Figure 5. The coordinate
positions of the labeled data points used by the PINNs method in the training stage are
reflected in the temperature contour map as black “x”.
Figure 5. Temperature contour map obtained from the PINNs method.
The output of the final loss function LTotal in the training process is approximately 5.78.
On the premise of ensuring continuity and calculation accuracy, the cubic interpolation
method is used to calculate the absolute error distribution at various locations within the
plane, as shown in Figure 6. Meanwhile, the average relative error of the plane is calculated
to be approximately 7.8%.
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
11 of 20
Figure 6. Absolute error contour map obtained from the PINNs method.
The results of the contour map show that the temperature field solved by the PINNs
method is basically the same as that solved by the finite element method on the whole. The
absolute error at various locations within the plane is typically less than 0.5 ◦C, and the
maximum is around 1 ◦C, with a relatively uniform distribution. It is proved that the PINNs
method can qualitatively predict the temperature distribution of the entire plane well; that
is, under the condition of sparse labeled data, it can solve the physical process represented
by the PDE through the constraints of the governing equation and boundary conditions,
and it achieved the expected effect. However, at the boundary positions, especially at the
locations where the temperature gradient changes greatly, such as near the vertices (0, 0)
and (0, 1) where the bottom boundary and the left and right boundaries meet, there is a
relatively large difference in the temperature distribution obtained by the PINNs method
and the Fluent solver. This indicates that, when solving problems with missing boundary
conditions, large gradients and the superposition of multiple boundary conditions, there
remains room for improvement in the inversion accuracy of this network structure.
4.3. Generalized Verification of PINNs Applied for Inverse Heat Transfer Problems
In this research, the temperature boundaries of the heat conduction problem are set to
range from 10 ◦C to 40 ◦C. In order to study the accuracy of the PINNs method within this
temperature range, seven working conditions are established. Starting from 10 ◦C, with
an increment of 5 ◦C as a gradient, a total of seven working conditions are set. The model
generalized verification of the PINNs method is carried out by adjusting the temperature
values of the boundary layer. Similarly, in order to ensure the repeatability and stability of
the results, ten rounds of training are independently carried out for each working condition,
and the loss functions with the minimum average relative errors for each working condition
are, respectively, selected and shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Average relative error and loss function values at different heating temperatures.
Component
Temperature of
Heating (◦C)
Average Relative
Error
LTotal
1
10
0.070385
1.21974
2
15
0.070473
1.70852
3
20
0.072126
4.31557
4
25
0.077490
4.32680
5
30
0.081967
8.37566
6
35
0.080866
6.81910
7
40
0.081620
7.29384
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
12 of 20
According to the iteration trend of the loss function shown in Figure 7, within this
temperature range, the solutions obtained by the PINNs method can all achieve conver-
gence. However, due to the different correlations between features and regression values
under different working conditions, the magnitudes of their final convergence values also
vary. The larger the temperature gradient is, the larger the final loss function value will be.
Figure 7. Loss function values at different heating temperatures.
In order to observe the impact of temperature gradient changes on the solutions
obtained by the PINNs method more intuitively, the temperature distribution contour
maps and absolute error contour maps under different working conditions are drawn,
respectively, as shown in Figure 8.
Figure 8. Cont.
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
13 of 20
Figure 8. Comparison of calculation results at different heating temperatures. The first column shows
the steady-state temperature field obtained by the PINNs method, and the absolute error of PINNs
method in the computational domain is presented in the second column.
Based on the above results, it can be observed that the temperature range set by the
boundary conditions will affect the solutions obtained by the PINNs method to some extent.
When the temperature gradient increases, the inversion error will rise slightly, but it always
remains within 10%. This proves that the PINNs method has a certain generalized ability
in this application scenario.
4.4. Impact of Sample Point Positions on the Inversion Results
In the above research, by analyzing the temperature contour map and the absolute
error contour map when the bottom boundary condition is 25 ◦C, it can be observed that
the positions with relatively large errors are concentrated at the junctions of the bottom
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
14 of 20
and the side edges. To further reduce the errors and improve the inversion accuracy, the
controlled variable method is adopted to explore the impact of the sample point positions
on the inversion results.
According to the method of controlling variables, each subdomain is solved indi-
vidually, and the division strategy is shown in Figure 3. While keeping the number and
positions of the sample points on the boundary unchanged, the number of sample points
is separately increased in one of the sub-regions each time, so that the number of sample
points inside the sub-region triples from the original number. The positions of the sample
points in the four solutions and the corresponding absolute error loss contour maps are
shown in Figure 9.
Figure 9. Cont.
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
15 of 20
Figure 9. Comparison of absolute error contour maps corresponding to different sampling schemes.
The first column shows the sample point distributions for each scheme, with the original sample
points in the computational domain consistent with those in Figure 3, and newly added sample
points highlighted in yellow. The second column presents the absolute error in the computational
domain for the corresponding sampling schemes.
The calculation results show that when the sample points are encrypted in sub-regions
I and II, the changes in their absolute error contour maps are not obvious. However,
after the sample points in sub-regions III and IV are encrypted, the absolute errors in the
corresponding regions decrease to a certain extent. This is mainly because the temperature
gradient changes greatly at the junctions of the bottom and the side edges, and it is relatively
sensitive to the regional temperature changes. If the PINNs method does not obtain enough
feature points in this region, it may lead to insufficient inversion accuracy in this region and,
thus, cause relatively large errors. Existing research [24] has demonstrated that the PINNs
method can solve the forward problem of the heat conduction equation without relying
on labeled data when the partial differential equation, initial conditions and boundary
conditions are complete. Considering that the goal of the PINNs method is to obtain
relatively accurate results using as sparse labeled data as possible, the method of improving
the inversion accuracy by adjusting the positions of sample points without increasing the
number of sample points is more universally applicable in practical applications.
To further refine the sampling strategy, the solution results of different sub-regions in
Figure 9 are summarized. Based on the conclusion that the regions with large temperature
gradient changes are more sensitive to temperature changes, a new sampling method is
adjusted and obtained. Draw two quarter rounds with a radius of 0.35 m, respectively,
with vertices (0, 0) and (0, 1) as the centers and the bottom edge and the left and right-
side edges as the boundaries. Take these two regions as the regions with relatively large
temperature gradient changes within the computational domain. Sample 4 positions evenly
in each region to replace the previous eight randomly sampled positions within the plane,
and obtain the updated sampling coordinates, as shown in Figure 10. The representation
method of the sample points in the figure is also consistent with that in Figure 3.
Using the PINNs method to solve the inverse problem, the obtained absolute error
contour map is shown in Figure 11. The error areas and magnitudes within the two quarter
rounds have been significantly reduced. At this stage, the average relative error is approxi-
mately 6.78%, which is reduced by approximately 1% compared to that before the sample
points were updated. This result demonstrates that the positions of the sample points
will have an impact on the inversion results. Increasing the sample point density at posi-
tions with larger temperature gradients effectively reduces solution errors and enhances
inversion accuracy.
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
16 of 20
Figure 10. Diagram of updated temperature sample points. Regions with significant temperature
gradients are represented in light blue.
Figure 11. Absolute error contour map obtained from the PINNs method using updated temperature
sample points.
4.5. Impact of Adaptively Scaled Weights Based on Learning Rate Annealing Procedure on the
Inversion Results
In the research from Sections 4.2–4.4, the weight ωnn of each loss term was uniformly
set to 1. To some extent, this can simplify the mapping relationship of the PINNs method
during the solution process. However, comparing the absolute error between the PINNs
method and the labeled data performs poorly in enforcing the boundary conditions, in-
creasing the overall error loss. This is because the ill-posed inverse problem model and
the limited labeled data cause conflicts among different parts of the loss function during
the training process [25]. The different magnitudes of magnitude of the values of LPDE,
Lbc and LData lead to unbalanced gradients in the backpropagation of the network. This
causes the model’s solution to be severely biased towards the term with the largest gradient,
rather than the entire loss function [26]. This will lead to an increase in the errors corre-
sponding to the other two terms, thus affecting the convergence of the PINNs method when
applied to solve inverse problems. The principle of the PINNs method is to incorporate
physical prior knowledge into the training of the loss function. The most important part,
and the core that gives physical meaning to the training process, is the incorporation of
the governing equation (PDE). Drawing on the method proposed by Wang et al. [27], we
apply the Learning Rate Annealing procedure combined with Adaptive Scaling of Weights
to mitigate the interference of unbalanced gradients on convergence.
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
17 of 20
For the loss function of Equation (12), since LPDE is the core of the convergence of
the PINNs method, the gradients of LPDE and LData are adjusted based on the gradient of
LPDE. The weight ωPDE of LPDE is set to be constantly 1. At the same time, set the weights
ωbc and ωData (uniformly represented by ωnn in Equations (17) and (18)) of Lbc and LData
as trainable parameters. The new loss function is expressed as,
LTotal = LPDE + ωbcLbc + ωDataLData
(16)
During each training session, calculate the gradient values of LPDE, Lbc, and LData,
respectively, in backpropagation. Then, based on the correspondence between the maxi-
mum value of the gradient of LPDE and the average values of the gradients of Lbc and LData,
calculate ˆωbc and ˆωData (uniformly represented by ˆωnn in Equations (17) and (18)), i.e.,
ˆωnn = max{|∇LPDE|}
|∇ωnnLnn|
(17)
where | | is the elementwise absolute value; max{|∇LPDE|} is the maximum value of
|∇LPDE|; and |∇ωnnLnn| is the average value of |∇ωnnLnn|.
Subsequently, the weights are updated using the method of moving average update,
ωnn = (1 −α)ωnn + α ˆωnn
(18)
where α is the weight of the moving average, which is used to control the smoothness of the
update. It has a very low sensitivity, and when it takes values within a reasonable range, it
will not significantly affect the training results. Generally, α = 0.1.
Other settings remain consistent with those in Section 4.3. The absolute error contour
plot obtained by training with the updated loss function is shown in Figure 12. The error
at the boundary is significantly reduced. The average relative error is approximately
5.32%, which is about 2% lower than that of the traditional PINNs method. Meanwhile,
the maximum absolute error has decreased from approximately 1.0 to approximately 0.6,
with a decline rate reaching 40%. This result effectively demonstrates that adjusting the
loss function using adaptively scaled weights can mitigate the interference of unbalanced
gradients on convergence and enhances the inversion accuracy.
Figure 12. Absolute error contour map obtained from the PINNs method using adaptively scaled weights.
4.6. Generalization to Unseen or Inconsistent Boundary Conditions
Although our validation uses fully specified Dirichlet conditions, the adaptively
weighted PINN is naturally suited to cope with perturbed or partially unknown bound-
aries. First, its sparse data robustness—requiring only ~0.2% of domain samples—ensures
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
18 of 20
stable reconstruction, even when large swathes of boundary measurements are missing or
corrupted. Second, our gradient-sensitive sampling concentrates collocation and measure-
ment points in regions of high-temperature gradient (e.g., boundary junctions), helping
the network “see” and adapt to unexpected boundary shifts. Finally, the Adaptive Weight
Scaling via Learning Rate Annealing dynamically rebalances the PDE, boundary-condition,
and data-mismatch losses at each iteration, mitigating conflicts when observed data imply
BCs that deviate from training assumptions.
Nevertheless, several challenges remain before tackling truly “unknown” bound-
aries in practical settings. If actual BCs strongly violate the embedded PDE constraints
(for example, abrupt flux changes), the network may have difficulty reconciling physics
and data—future work will explore automatic inconsistency detection and on-the-fly loss
reweighting. Our current implementation also lacks uncertainty quantification, so integrat-
ing Bayesian PINNs or ensemble methods will be crucial to provide confidence bounds
on both the reconstructed field and inferred BCs. Lastly, real-world BCs often vary over
time; extending our steady-state framework to a time-dependent PINN will be necessary
to address transient or periodically perturbed boundary conditions.
5. Conclusions
This research investigates the application of Physics-Informed Neural Networks
(PINNs) for solving inverse problems in two-dimensional steady-state heat conduction.
Our key findings include the following:
(1)
PINNs effectively solve inverse heat transfer problems within a temperature range of
10 ◦C to 40 ◦C with high computational efficiency (0.072 s per iteration). The method
maintains absolute errors below 1 ◦C and average relative errors under 10% across
the computational domain, providing a viable alternative to traditional CFD methods
for rapid PDE solutions in engineering applications.
(2)
The strategic optimization of sampling point distribution enhances solution accuracy
without increasing data requirements. By concentrating sampling points in regions
with steep temperature gradients, we achieved an approximately 1% reduction in
the average relative error, offering practical implications for experimental design and
sensor placement.
(3)
Our adaptive weight scaling strategy based on learning rate annealing addresses un-
balanced gradients in the loss function, reducing the maximum absolute error by 40%
(from 1.0 ◦C to 0.6 ◦C) and decreasing the average relative error by approximately 2%.
The PINNs method demonstrated in this study offers several key advantages for in-
verse heat transfer problems: computational efficiency (0.072 s per iteration), ability to work
with sparse measurement data (just 0.2% of domain nodes), integration of physical laws
ensuring physically consistent solutions, and flexibility in handling unknown boundary
conditions. However, the method also presents certain limitations: sensitivity to sample
point distribution requiring strategic placement in high-gradient regions, challenges in
balancing different components of the loss function, stochastic optimization nature ne-
cessitating multiple training runs, and dependence on careful hyperparameter tuning for
optimal performance.
Author Contributions: Methodology, Y.P., K.Z. and N.M.; Formal analysis, N.M.; Investigation, K.Z.;
Resources, N.M.; Data curation, J.Z.; Writing—original draft, Y.P.; Writing—review & editing, N.M.
All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
19 of 20
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: The original contributions presented in the study are included in the
article, further inquiries can be directed to the corresponding author.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
References
1.
Nascimento, E.J.; Magalhães, E.d.S.; Paes, L.E.d.S. Estimation of thermal properties at high temperatures through the application
of radial basis function interpolation in an inverse heat transfer problem. Int. Commun. Heat Mass Transf. 2025, 161, 108482.
[CrossRef]
2.
Glasko, V.; Zakharov, M.; Kolp, A. Application of the regularization method to solve an inverse problem of non-linear heat-
conduction theory. USSR Comput. Math. Math. Phys. 1975, 15, 244–248. [CrossRef]
3.
Artyukhin, E.A.; Rumyantsev, S.V. Optimal choice of descent steps in gradient methods of solution of inverse heat-conduction
problems. J. Eng. Phys. Thermophys. 1980, 39, 865–869. [CrossRef]
4.
Huang, C.-H.; Chen, C.-W. A boundary element-based inverse-problem in estimating transient boundary conditions with
conjugate gradient method. Int. J. Numer. Methods Eng. 1998, 42, 943–965. [CrossRef]
5.
Duda, P.; Taler, J. A new method for identification of thermal boundary conditions in water-wall tubes of boiler furnaces. Int. J.
Heat Mass Transf. 2009, 52, 1517–1524. [CrossRef]
6.
Cortés, O.; Urquiza, G.; Hernández, J.A. Inverse Heat Transfer Using Levenberg-Marquardt and Particle Swarm Optimization
Methods for Heat Source Estimation. Appl. Mech. Mater. 2009, 15, 35–40. [CrossRef]
7.
Kim, K.W.; Baek, S.W. Inverse radiation–conduction design problem in a participating concentric cylindrical medium. Int. J. Heat
Mass Transf. 2007, 50, 2828–2837. [CrossRef]
8.
Sablani, S.S. A neural network approach for non-iterative calculation of heat transfer coefficient in fluid–particle systems. Chem.
Eng. Process.-Process. Intensif. 2001, 40, 363–369. [CrossRef]
9.
Zha, W.; Zhang, W.; Li, D.; Xing, Y.; He, L.; Tan, J. Convolution-Based Model-Solving Method for Three-Dimensional, Unsteady,
Partial Differential Equations. Neural Comput. 2022, 34, 518–540. [CrossRef]
10.
Long, Z.; Lu, Y.; Dong, B. PDE-Net 2.0: Learning PDEs from data with a numeric-symbolic hybrid deep network. J. Comput. Phys.
2019, 399, 108925. [CrossRef]
11.
Nabian, M.A.; Gladstone, R.J.; Meidani, H. Efficient training of physics-informed neural networks via importance sampling.
Comput. Civ. Infrastruct. Eng. 2021, 36, 962–977. [CrossRef]
12.
Sun, L.; Gao, H.; Pan, S.; Wang, J.-X. Surrogate modeling for fluid flows based on physics-constrained deep learning without
simulation data. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Eng. 2020, 361, 112732. [CrossRef]
13.
Raissi, M.; Perdikaris, P.; Karniadakis, G.E. Physics-informed neural networks: A deep learning framework for solving forward
and inverse problems involving nonlinear partial differential equations. J. Comput. Phys. 2019, 378, 686–707. [CrossRef]
14.
Xiang, Z.; Peng, W.; Liu, X.; Yao, W. Self-adaptive loss balanced Physics-informed neural networks. Neurocomputing 2022, 496,
11–34. [CrossRef]
15.
Beck, J.V.; Biackwell, B.; Clair, C.R.S. Inverse Heat Conduction: Ill-Posed Problems. ZAMM J. Appl. Math. Mech./Z. Für Angew.
Math. Und Mechanik 1985, 67, 212–213.
16.
Frankel, J.I.; Keyhani, M. Moving Low-Pass Gauss Filter with Automatically Defined Influence Region for Diffusive Studies.
J. Thermophys. Heat Transf. 2012, 26, 176–181. [CrossRef]
17.
Cai, S.; Wang, Z.; Wang, S.; Perdikaris, P.; Karniadakis, G.E. Physics-Informed Neural Networks for Heat Transfer Problems.
J. Heat Transf. 2021, 143, 060801. [CrossRef]
18.
Baydin, A.G.; Pearlmutter, B.A.; Radul, A.A.; Siskind, J.M. Automatic differentiation in machine learning: A survey. J. Mach.
Learn. Res. 2018, 18, 1–43.
19.
Shukla, K.; Jagtap, A.D.; Karniadakis, G.E. Parallel physics-informed neural networks via domain decomposition. J. Comput.
Phys. 2021, 447, 110683. [CrossRef]
20.
Zhao, X.; Gong, Z.; Zhang, Y.; Yao, W.; Chen, X. Physics-informed convolutional neural networks for temperature field prediction
of heat source layout without labeled data. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 2023, 117, 105516. [CrossRef]
21.
Zhang, Z.; Hou, Y.; Yuan, Y. A novel physical information neural network for real-time monitoring and sparse reconstruction of
thermal environments with turbulent natural convection in nacelles. Renew. Energy 2025, 240, 122166. [CrossRef]
22.
Liu, X.; Peng, W.; Gong, Z.; Zhou, W.; Yao, W. Temperature field inversion of heat-source systems via physics-informed neural
networks. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 2022, 113, 104902. [CrossRef]
23.
Jagtap, A.D.; Kharazmi, E.; Karniadakis, G.E. Conservative physics-informed neural networks on discrete domains for conserva-
tion laws: Applications to forward and inverse problems. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Eng. 2020, 365, 113028. [CrossRef]
\nEng 2025, 6, 99
20 of 20
24.
He, Z.; Ni, F.; Wang, W.; Zhang, J. A physics-informed deep learning method for solving direct and inverse heat conduction
problems of materials. Mater. Today Commun. 2021, 28, 102719. [CrossRef]
25.
Xu, C.; Cao, B.T.; Yuan, Y.; Meschke, G. Transfer learning based physics-informed neural networks for solving inverse problems
in engineering structures under different loading scenarios. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Eng. 2023, 405, 115852. [CrossRef]
26.
Glorot, X.; Bengio, Y. Understanding the difficulty of training deep feedforward neural networks. In Proceedings of the Thirteenth
International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, Sardinia, Italy, 13–15 May 2010; Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research: PMLR.
27.
Wang, S.; Teng, Y.; Perdikaris, P. Understanding and Mitigating Gradient Flow Pathologies in Physics-Informed Neural Networks.
SIAM J. Sci. Comput. 2021, 43, A3055–A3081. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
