Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92:88
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10915-022-01939-z
Scientiﬁc Machine Learning Through Physics–Informed
Neural Networks: Where we are and What’s Next
Salvatore Cuomo1 · Vincenzo Schiano Di Cola2 · Fabio Giampaolo1 ·
Gianluigi Rozza3 · Maziar Raissi4 · Francesco Piccialli1
Received: 14 January 2022 / Revised: 6 July 2022 / Accepted: 6 July 2022 /
Published online: 26 July 2022
© The Author(s) 2022
Abstract
Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINN) are neural networks (NNs) that encode model
equations, like Partial Differential Equations (PDE), as a component of the neural network
itself. PINNs are nowadays used to solve PDEs, fractional equations, integral-differential
equations, and stochastic PDEs. This novel methodology has arisen as a multi-task learning
framework in which a NN must ﬁt observed data while reducing a PDE residual. This article
provides a comprehensive review of the literature on PINNs: while the primary goal of the
study was to characterize these networks and their related advantages and disadvantages.
The review also attempts to incorporate publications on a broader range of collocation-based
physics informed neural networks, which stars form the vanilla PINN, as well as many other
variants, such as physics-constrained neural networks (PCNN), variational hp-VPINN, and
conservative PINN (CPINN). The study indicates that most research has focused on cus-
tomizing the PINN through different activation functions, gradient optimization techniques,
neural network structures, and loss function structures. Despite the wide range of applica-
tions for which PINNs have been used, by demonstrating their ability to be more feasible
in some contexts than classical numerical techniques like Finite Element Method (FEM),
advancements are still possible, most notably theoretical issues that remain unresolved.
Keywords Physics–Informed Neural Networks · Scientiﬁc Machine Learning · Deep
Neural Networks · Nonlinear equations · Numerical methods · Partial Differential
Equations · Uncertainty
S. Cuomo, V. Schiano, F. Giampaolo, G. Rozza and M. Raissi are contributed equally to this study
B Francesco Piccialli
francesco.piccialli@unina.it
Extended author information available on the last page of the article
123
\n88
Page 2 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
1 Introduction
Deep neural networks have succeeded in tasks such as computer vision, natural language pro-
cessing, and game theory. Deep Learning (DL) has transformed how categorization, pattern
recognition, and regression tasks are performed across various application domains.
Deep neural networks are increasingly being used to tackle classical applied mathemat-
ics problems such as partial differential equations (PDEs) utilizing machine learning and
artiﬁcial intelligence approaches. Due to, for example, signiﬁcant nonlinearities, convection
dominance, or shocks, some PDEs are notoriously difﬁcult to solve using standard numerical
approaches. Deep learning has recently emerged as a new paradigm of scientiﬁc computing
thanks to neural networks’ universal approximation and great expressivity. Recent studies
have shown deep learning to be a promising method for building meta-models for fast pre-
dictions of dynamic systems. In particular, NNs have proven to represent the underlying
nonlinear input-output relationship in complex systems. Unfortunately, dealing with such
high dimensional-complex systems are not exempt from the curse of dimensionality, which
Bellman ﬁrst described in the context of optimal control problems [15]. However, machine
learning-based algorithms are promising for solving PDEs [19].
Indeed, Blechschmidt and Ernst [19] consider machine learning-based PDE solution
approaches will continue to be an important study subject in the next years as deep learn-
ing develops in methodological, theoretical, and algorithmic developments. Simple neural
network models, such as MLPs with few hidden layers, were used in early work for solv-
ing differential equations [89]. Modern methods, based on NN techniques, take advantage
of optimization frameworks and auto-differentiation, like Berg and Nyström [16] that sug-
gested a uniﬁed deep neural network technique for estimating PDE solutions. Furthermore,
it is envisioned that DNN will be able to create an interpretable hybrid Earth system model
based on neural networks for Earth and climate sciences [68].
Nowadays, the literature does not have a clear nomenclature for integrating previous
knowledge of a physical phenomenon with deep learning. ‘Physics-informed,’ ‘physics-
based,’ ‘physics-guided,’ and ‘theory-guided’ are often some used terms. Kim et al [80]
developed the overall taxonomy of what they called informed deep learning, followed by a
literature review in the ﬁeld of dynamical systems. Their taxonomy is organized into three
conceptual stages: (i) what kind of deep neural network is used, (ii) how physical knowledge
is represented, and (iii) how physical information is integrated. Inspired by their work, we
will investigate PINNs, a 2017 framework, and demonstrate how neural network features are
used, how physical information is supplied, and what physical problems have been solved in
the literature.
1.1 What the PINNs are
Physics–Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) are a scientiﬁc machine learning technique
used to solve problems involving Partial Differential Equations (PDEs). PINNs approximate
PDE solutions by training a neural network to minimize a loss function; it includes terms
reﬂecting the initial and boundary conditions along the space-time domain’s boundary and
the PDE residual at selected points in the domain (called collocation point). PINNs are deep-
learning networks that, given an input point in the integration domain, produce an estimated
solution in that point of a differential equation after training. Incorporating a residual network
that encodes the governing physics equations is a signiﬁcant novelty with PINNs. The basic
concept behind PINN training is that it can be thought of as an unsupervised strategy that
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 3 of 62
88
does not require labelled data, such as results from prior simulations or experiments. The
PINN algorithm is essentially a mesh-free technique that ﬁnds PDE solutions by converting
the problem of directly solving the governing equations into a loss function optimization
problem. It works by integrating the mathematical model into the network and reinforcing
the loss function with a residual term from the governing equation, which acts as a penalizing
term to restrict the space of acceptable solutions.
PINNs take into account the underlying PDE, i.e. the physics of the problem, rather
than attempting to deduce the solution based solely on data, i.e. by ﬁtting a neural network
to a set of state-value pairs. The idea of creating physics-informed learning machines that
employ systematically structured prior knowledge about the solution can be traced back to
earlier research by Owhadi [125], which revealed the promising technique of leveraging
such prior knowledge. Raissi et al [141, 142] used Gaussian process regression to construct
representations of linear operator functionals, accurately inferring the solution and providing
uncertainty estimates for a variety of physical problems; this was then extended in [140, 145].
PINNs were introduced in 2017 as a new class of data-driven solvers in a two-part article [143,
144] published in a merged version afterwards in 2019 [146]. Raissi et al [146] introduce
and illustrate the PINN approach for solving nonlinear PDEs, like Schrödinger, Burgers, and
Allen–Cahn equations. They created physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) which can
handle both forward problems of estimating the solutions of governing mathematical models
and inverse problems, where the model parameters are learnt from observable data.
The concept of incorporating prior knowledge into a machine learning algorithm is not
entirely novel. In fact Dissanayake and Phan-Thien [39] can be considered one of the ﬁrst
PINNs. This paper followed the results of the universal approximation achievements of the
late 1980s, [65]; then in the early 90s several methodologies were proposed to use neural
networks to approximate PDEs, like the work on constrained neural networks [89, 135] or
[93]. In particular Dissanayake and Phan-Thien [39] employed a simple neural networks to
approximate a PDE, where the neural network’s output was a single value that was designed
to approximate the solution value at the speciﬁed input position. The network had two hidden
layers, with 3, 5 or 10 nodes for each layer. The network loss function approximated the L2
error of the approximation on the interior and boundary of the domain using point-collocation.
While, the loss is evaluated using a quasi-Newtonian approach and the gradients are evaluated
using ﬁnite difference.
In Lagaris et al [89], the solution of a differential equation is expressed as a constant term
and an adjustable term with unknown parameters, the best parameter values are determined
via a neural network. However, their method only works for problems with regular borders.
Lagaris et al [90] extends the method to problems with irregular borders.
As computing power increased during the 2000s, increasingly sophisticated models with
more parameters and numerous layers became the standard Özbay et al [127]. Different deep
model using MLP, were introduced, also using Radial Basis Function Kumar and Yadav [87].
Research into the use of NNs to solve PDEs continued to gain traction in the late 2010s,
thanks to advancements in the hardware used to run NN training, the discovery of better
practices for training NNs, and the availability of open-source packages, such as Tensorﬂow
[55], and the availability of Automatic differentiation in such packages [129].
Finally, more recent advancements by Kondor and Trivedi [83], and Mallat [102], brought
to Raissi et al [146] solution that extended previous notions while also introducing funda-
mentally new approaches, such as a discrete time-stepping scheme that efﬁciently leverages
the predictive ability of neural networks [82]. The fact that the framework could be utilized
directly by plugging it into any differential problem simpliﬁed the learning curve for begin-
ning to use such, and it was the ﬁrst step for many researchers who wanted to solve their
123
\n88
Page 4 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
problems with a Neural network approach [105]. The success of the PINNs can be seen from
the rate at which Raissi et al [146] is cited, and the exponentially growing number of citations
in the recent years (Fig. 1).
However, PINN is not the only NN framework utilized to solve PDEs. Various frameworks
have been proposed in recent years, and, while not exhaustive, we have attempted to highlight
the most relevant ones in this paragraph.
The Deep Ritz method (DRM) [42], where the loss is deﬁned as the energy of the problem’s
solution.
Then there approaches based on the Galerkin method, or Petrov–Galerkin method, where
the loss is given by multiplying the residual by a test function, and when is the volumetric
residual we have a Deep Galerkin Method (DGM) [160]. Whereas, when a Galerkin approach
is used on collocation points the framework is a variant of PINNs, i.e. a hp-VPINN Kharazmi
et al [78].
Within the a collocation based approach, i.e. PINN methodology [109, 146, 191], many
other variants were proposed, as the variational hp-VPINN, as well as conservative PINN
(CPINN)[71]. Another approach is physics-constrained neural networks (PCNNs) [97, 168,
200]. while PINNs incorporate both the PDE and its initial/boundary conditions (soft BC) in
the training loss function, PCNNs, are “data-free” NNs, i.e. they enforce the initial/boundary
conditions (hard BC) via a custom NN architecture while embedding the PDE in the training
loss. This soft form technique is described in Raissi et al [146], where the term “physics-
informed neural networks” was coined (PINNs).
Because there are more articles on PINN than any other speciﬁc variant, such as PCNN, hp-
VPINN, CPINN, and so on, this review will primarily focus on PINN, with some discussion
of the various variants that have emerged, that is, NN architectures that solve differential
equations based on collocation points.
Finally, the acronym PINN will be written in its singular form rather than its plural form
in this review, as it is considered representative of a family of neural networks of the same
type.
Various review papers involving PINN have been published. About the potentials, limi-
tations and applications for forward and inverse problems [74] for three-dimensional ﬂows
[20], or a comparison with other ML techniques [19]. An introductory course on PINNs
that covers the fundamentals of Machine Learning and Neural Networks can be found from
Kollmannsberger et al [82]. PINN is also compared against other methods that can be applied
to solve PDEs, like the one based on the Feynman–Kac theorem [19]. Finally, PINNs have
also been extended to solve integrodifferential equations (IDEs) [128, 193] or stochastic
differential equations (SDEs) [189, 195].
Being able to learn PDEs, PINNs have several advantages over conventional methods.
PINNs, in particular, are mesh-free methods that enable on-demand solution computation
after a training stage, and they allow solutions to be made differentiable using analytical gra-
dients. Finally, they provide an easy way to solve forward jointly and inverse problems using
the same optimization problem. In addition to solving differential equations (the forward
problem), PINNs may be used to solve inverse problems such as characterizing ﬂuid ﬂows
from sensor data. In fact, the same code used to solve forward problems can be used to solve
inverse problems with minimal modiﬁcation. Moreover, in the context of inverse design,
PDEs can also be enforced as hard constraints (hPINN) [101]. Indeed, PINNs can address
PDEs in domains with very complicated geometries or in very high dimensions that are all
difﬁcult to numerically simulate as well as inverse problems and constrained optimization
problems.
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 5 of 62
88
1.2 What is this Review About
In this survey, we focus on how PINNs are used to address different scientiﬁc computing
problems, the building blocks of PINNs, the aspects related to learning theory, what toolsets
are already available, future directions and recent trends, and issues regarding accuracy
and convergence. According to different problems, we show how PINNs solvers have been
customized in literature by conﬁguring the depth, layer size, activation functions and using
transfer learning.
This article can be considered as an extensive literature review on PINNs. It was mostly
conducted by searching Scopus for the terms:
((physic* OR physical) W/2 (informed OR constrained) W/2
“neural network”)
The primary research question was to determine what PINNs are and their associated beneﬁts
anddrawbacks.TheresearchalsofocusedontheoutputsfromtheCRUNCHresearchgroupin
the Division of Applied Mathematics at Brown University and then on the (Physics–Informed
Learning Machines for Multiscale and Multiphysics Problems) PhILMs Center, which is a
collaboration with the Paciﬁc Northwest National Laboratory. In such a frame, the primary
authors who have been involved in this literature research are Karniadakis G.E., Perdikaris
P., and Raissi M. Additionally, the review considered studies that addressed a broader topic
than PINNs, namely physics-guided neural networks, as well as physics-informed machine
learning and deep learning.
Figure 1 summarizes what the inﬂuence of PINN is in today’s literature and applications.
2 The Building Blocks of a PINN
Physically-informed neural networks can address problems that are described by few data,
or noisy experiment observations. Because they can use known data while adhering to any
given physical law speciﬁed by general nonlinear partial differential equations, PINNs can
also be considered neural networks that deal with supervised learning problems [52]. PINNs
can solve differential equations expressed, in the most general form, like:
F(u(z); γ ) = f (z)
z in ,
B(u(z)) = g(z)
z in ∂
(1)
deﬁnedonthedomain ⊂Rd withtheboundary∂.Where z := [x1, . . . , xd−1; t]indicates
the space-time coordinate vector, u represents the unknown solution, γ are the parameters
related to the physics, f is the function identifying the data of the problem and F is the non
linear differential operator. Finally, since the initial condition can actually be considered as a
type of Dirichlet boundary condition on the spatio-temporal domain, it is possible to denote
B as the operator indicating arbitrary initial or boundary conditions related to the problem
and g the boundary function. Indeed, the boundary conditions can be Dirichlet, Neumann,
Robin, or periodic boundary conditions.
Equation (1) can describe numerous physical systems including both forward and inverse
problems. The goal of forward problems is to ﬁnd the function u for every z, where γ are
speciﬁed parameters. In the case of the inverse problem, γ must also be determined from the
data. The reader can ﬁnd an operator based mathematical formulation of Eq. (1) in the work
of Mishra and Molinaro [111].
123
\n88
Page 6 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Fig. 1 A number of papers related to PINNs (on the right) addressed problems on which PINNs are applied (on
the left) by year. PINN is having a signiﬁcant impact in the literature and in scientiﬁc applications. The number
of papers referencing Raissi or including PINN in their abstract title or keywords is increasing exponentially.
The number of papers about PINN more than quintupled between 2019 and 2020, and there were twice as
many new papers published in 2021 as there were in 2020. Since Raissi’s ﬁrst papers on arXiv in 2019 [146],
a boost in citations can be seen in late 2018 and 2019. On the left, we display a sample problem solved in that
year by one of the articles, speciﬁcally a type of time-dependent equation. Some of the addressed problems
to be solved in the ﬁrst vanilla PINN, for example, were the Allen–Cahn equation, the Korteweg–de Vries
equation, or the 1D nonlinear Shrödinger problem (SE). By the end of 2019 Mao et al [103] solved with
the same PINN Euler equations (EE) that model high-speed aerodynamic ﬂows. By the end of 2020 Jin et
al [73] solved the incompressible Navier–Stokes equations (NSE). Finally, in 2021 Cai et al [22] coupled
the Navier–Stokes equations with the corresponding temperature equation for analyzing heat ﬂow convection
(NSE+HE)
In the PINN methodology, u(z) is computationally predicted by a NN, parametrized by a
set of parameters θ, giving rise to an approximation
ˆuθ(z) ≈u(z);
where ˆ(·)θ denotes a NN approximation realized with θ.
In this context, where forward and inverse problems are analyzed in the same framework,
and given that PINN can adequately solve both problems, we will use θ to represent both the
vector of all unknown parameters in the neural network that represents the surrogate model
and unknown parameters γ in the case of an inverse problem.
In such a context, the NN must learn to approximate the differential equations through
ﬁnding θ that deﬁne the NN by minimizing a loss function that depends on the differential
equation LF, the boundary conditions LB, and eventually some known data Ldata, each of
them adequately weighted:
θ∗= arg min
θ
(ωFLF(θ) + ωBLB(θ) + ωdLdata(θ)) .
(2)
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 7 of 62
88
Fig. 2 Physics-informed neural networks building blocks. PINNs are made up of differential equation residual
(loss) terms, as well as initial and boundary conditions. The network’s inputs (variables) are transformed into
network outputs (the ﬁeld u). The network is deﬁned by θ. The second area is the physics informed network,
which takes the output ﬁeld u and computes the derivative using the given equations. The boundary/initial
condition is also evaluated (if it has not already been hard-encoded in the neural network), and also the labeled
data observations are calculated (in case there is any data available). The ﬁnal step with all of these residuals
is the feedback mechanism, that minimizes the loss, using an optimizer, according to some learning rate in
order to obtain the NN parameters θ
To summarize, PINN can be viewed as an unsupervised learning approach when they are
trained solely using physical equations and boundary conditions for forward problems; how-
ever, for inverse problems or when some physical properties are derived from data that may
be noisy, PINN can be considered supervised learning methodologies.
In the following paragraph, we will discuss the types of NN used to approximate u(z),
how the information derived by F is incorporated in the model, and how the NN learns from
the equations and additional given data.
Figure 2 summarizes all the PINN’s building blocks discussed in this section. PINN
are composed of three components: a neural network, a physics-informed network, and a
feedback mechanism. The ﬁrst block is a NN, ˆuθ, that accepts vector variables z from the
Eq. (1) and outputs the ﬁled value u. The second block can be thought of PINN’s functional
component, as it computes the derivative to determine the losses of equation terms, as well as
the terms of the initial and boundary conditions of Eq. (2). Generally, the ﬁrst two blocks are
linked using algorithmic differentiation, which is used to inject physical equations into the
NN during the training phase. Thus, the feedback mechanism minimizes the loss according to
some learning rate, in order to ﬁx the NN parameters vector θ of the NN ˆuθ. In the following,
it will be clear from the context to what network we are referring to, whether the NN or the
functional network that derives the physical information.
2.1 Neural Network Architecture
The representational ability of neural networks is well established. According to the universal
approximation theorem, any continuous function can be arbitrarily closely approximated by
a multi-layer perceptron with only one hidden layer and a ﬁnite number of neurons [17, 34,
123
\n88
Page 8 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
65, 192]. While neural networks can express very complex functions compactly, determining
the precise parameters (weights and biases) required to solve a speciﬁc PDE can be difﬁcult
[175]. Furthermore, identifying the appropriate artiﬁcial neural network (ANN) architecture
can be challenging. There are two approaches: shallow learning networks, which have a
single hidden layer and can still produce any non-linear continuous function, and deep neural
networks (DNN), a type of ANN that uses more than two layers of neural networks to model
complicated relationships [2]. Finally, the taxonomy of various Deep Learning architectures
is still a matter of research [2, 117, 155]
The main architectures covered in the Deep Learning literature include fully connected
feed-forward networks (called FFNN, or also FNN, FCNN, or FF–DNN), convolutional neu-
ral networks (CNNs), and recurrent neural networks (RNNs) [29, 92]. Other more recent
architectures encompass Auto–Encoder (AE), Deep Belief Network (DBN), Generative
Adversarial Network (GAN), and Bayesian Deep Learning (BDL) [5, 17].
Various PINN extensions have been investigated, based on some of these networks. An
example is estimating the PINN solution’s uncertainty using Bayesian neural networks. Alter-
natively, when training CNNs and RNNs, ﬁnite-difference ﬁlters can be used to construct the
differential equation residual in a PINN-like loss function. This section will illustrate all of
these examples and more; ﬁrst, we will deﬁne the mathematical framework for characterizing
the various networks.
According to Caterini and Chang [25] a generic deep neural network with L layers, can be
represented as the composition of L functions fi(xi, θi) where xi are known as state variables,
and θi denote the set of parameters for the i-th layer. So a function u(x) is approximated as
uθ(x) = fL ◦fL−1 . . . ◦f1(x).
(3)
where each fi is deﬁned on two inner product spaces Ei and Hi, being fi ∈Ei × Hi and the
layer composition, represented by ◦, is to be read as f2 ◦f1(x) = f2( f1(x)).
Since Raissi et al [146] original vanilla PINN, the majority of solutions have used feed-
forward neural networks. However, some researchers have experimented with different types
of neural networks to see how they affect overall PINN performance, in particular with CNN,
RNN, and GAN, and there seems there has been not yet a full investigation of other networks
within the PINN framework. In this subsection, we attempt to synthesize the mainstream
solutions, utilizing feed-forward networks, and all of the other versions. Table 1 contains a
synthesis reporting the kind of neural network and the paper that implemented it.
2.1.1 Feed-forward Neural Network
A feed-forward neural network, also known as a multi-layer perceptron (MLP), is a collection
of neurons organized in layers that perform calculations sequentially through the layers. Feed-
forward networks, also known as multilayer perceptrons (MLP), are DNNs with several
hidden layers that only move forward (no loopback). In a fully connected neural network,
neurons in adjacent layers are connected, whereas neurons inside a single layer are not linked.
Each neuron is a mathematical operation that applies an activation function to the weighted
sum of it’s own inputs plus a bias factor [175]. Given an input x ∈ an MLP transforms it to
an output, through a layer of units (neurons) which compose of afﬁne-linear maps between
units (in successive layers) and scalar non-linear activation functions within units, resulting
in a composition of functions. So for MLP, it is possible to specify (3) as
fi(xi; Wi, bi) = αi(Wi · xi + bi)
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 9 of 62
88
equipping each Ei and Hi with the standard Euclidean inner product, i.e. E = H = R [26],
and αi is a scalar (non-linear) activation function. The machine learning literature has studied
several different activation functions, which we shall discuss later in this section. Equation (3)
can also be rewritten in conformity with the notation used in Mishra and Molinaro [111]:
uθ(x) = CK ◦α ◦CK−1 . . . ◦α ◦C1(x),
(4)
where for any 1 ≤k ≤K, it it is deﬁned
Ck(xk) = Wkxk + bk.
(5)
Thus a neural network consists of an input layer, an output layer, and (K −2) hidden layers.
FFNN Architectures
While the ideal DNN architecture is still an ongoing research; papers implementing PINN
have attempted to empirically optimise the architecture’s characteristics, such as the number
of layers and neurons in each layer. Smaller DNNs may be unable to effectively approximate
unknown functions, whereas too large DNNs may be difﬁcult to train, particularly with small
datasets. Raissi et al [146] used different typologies of DNN, for each problem, like a 5-layer
deep neural network with 100 neurons per layer, an DNN with 4 hidden layers and 200
neurons per layer or a 9 layers with 20 neuron each layer. Tartakovsky et al [170] empirically
determine the feedforward network size, in particular they use three hidden layers and 50
units per layer, all with an hyperbolic tangent activation function. Another example of how
the differential problem affects network architecture can be found in Kharazmi et al [78] for
their hp-VPINN. The architecture is implemented with four layers and twenty neurons per
layer, but for an advection equation with a double discontinuity of the exact solution, they
use an eight-layered deep network. For a constrained approach, by utilizing a speciﬁc portion
of the NN to satisfy the required boundary conditions, Zhu et al [199] use ﬁve hidden layers
and 250 neurons per layer to constitute the fully connected neural network. Bringing the
number of layers higher, in PINNeik [175], a DNN with ten hidden layers containing twenty
neurons each is utilized, with a locally adaptive inverse tangent function as the activation
function for all hidden layers except the ﬁnal layer, which has a linear activation function.
He et al [60] examines the effect of neural network size on state estimation accuracy. They
begin by experimenting with various hidden layer sizes ranging from three to ﬁve, while
maintaining a value of 32 neurons per layer. Then they set the number of hidden layers to
three, the activation function to hyperbolic tangent, while varying the number of neurons
in each hidden layer. Other publications have attempted to understand how the number of
layers, neurons, and activation functions effect the NN’s approximation quality with respect
to the problem to be solved, like [19].
Multiple FFNN
Although many publications employ a single fully connected network, a rising number of
research papers have been addressing PINN with multiple fully connected network blended
together, e.g. to approximate speciﬁc equation of a larger mathematical model. An architec-
ture composed of ﬁve the feed-forward neural network is proposed by Haghighat et al [57].
In a two-phase Stefan problem, discussed later in this review and in Cai et al [22], a DNN is
used to model the unknown interface between two different material phases, while another
DNN describes the two temperature distributions of the phases. Instead of a single NN across
123
\n88
Page 10 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
the entire domain, Moseley et al [116] suggests using multiple neural networks, one for each
subdomain. Finally, Lu et al [99] employed a pair of DNN, one for encoding the input space
(branch net) and the other for encoding the domain of the output functions (trunk net). This
architecture, known as DeepONet, is particularly generic because no requirements are made
to the topology of the branch or trunk network, despite the fact that the two sub-networks
have been implemented as FFNNs as in Lin et al [96].
Shallow Networks
To overcome some difﬁculties, various researchers have also tried to investigate shallower
network solutions: these can be sparse neural networks, instead of fully connected architec-
tures, or more likely single hidden layers as ELM (Extreme Learning Machine) [66]. When
compared to the shallow architecture, more hidden layers aid in the modeling of complicated
nonlinear relationships [155], however, using PINNs for real problems can result in deep
networks with many layers associated with high training costs and efﬁciency issues. For
this reason, not only deep neural networks have been employed for PINNs but also shallow
ANN are reported in the literature. X–TFC, developed by Schiassi et al [153], employs a
single-layer NN trained using the ELM algorithm. While PIELM [41] is proposed as a faster
alternative, using a hybrid neural network-based method that combines two ideas from PINN
and ELM. ELM only updates the weights of the outer layer, leaving the weights of the inner
layer unchanged.
Finally, in Ramabathiran and Ramachandran [148] a Sparse, Physics-based, and partially
Interpretable Neural Networks (SPINN) is proposed. The authors suggest a sparse architec-
ture, using kernel networks, that yields interpretable results while requiring fewer parameters
than fully connected solutions. They consider various kernels such as Radial Basis Functions
(RBF), softplus hat, or Gaussian kernels, and apply their proof of concept architecture to a
variety of mathematical problems.
Activation Function
The activation function has a signiﬁcant impact on DNN training performance. ReLU, Sig-
moid, Tanh are commonly used activations [168]. Recent research has recommended training
an adjustable activation function like Swish, which is deﬁned as x · Sigmoid(βx) and β is
a trainable parameter, and where Sigmoid is supposed to be a general sigmoid curve, an
S-shaped function, or in some cases a logistic function. Among the most used activation
functions there are logistic sigmoid, hyperbolic tangent, ReLu, and leaky ReLu. Most authors
tend to use the inﬁnitely differentiable hyperbolic tangent activation function α(x) = tanh(x)
[60], whereas Cheng and Zhang [31] use a Resnet block to improve the stability of the
fully-connected neural network (FC–NN). They also prove that Swish activation function
outperforms the others in terms of enhancing the neural network’s convergence rate and accu-
racy. Nonetheless, because of the second order derivative evaluation, it is pivotal to choose
the activation function in a PINN framework with caution. For example, while rescaling the
PDE to dimensionless form, it is preferable to choose a range of [0, 1] rather than a wider
domain, because most activation functions (such as Sigmoid, Tanh, Swish) are nonlinear near
0. Moreover the regularity of PINNs can be ensured by using smooth activation functions like
as the sigmoid and hyperbolic tangent, allowing estimations of PINN generalization error to
hold true [111].
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 11 of 62
88
2.1.2 Convolutional Neural Networks
Convolutional neural networks (ConvNet or CNN) are intended to process data in the form
of several arrays, for example a color image made of three 2D arrays. CNNs usually have a
number of convolution and pooling layers. The convolution layer is made up of a collection of
ﬁlters (or kernels) that convolve across the full input rather than general matrix multiplication.
The pooling layer instead performs subsampling, reducing the dimensionality.
For CNNs, according to Caterini and Chang [26], the layerwise function f can be written
as
fi(xi; Wi) = 	i(αi(Ci(Wi, xi)))
where α is an elementwise nonlinearity, 	 is the max-pooling map, and C the convolution
operator.
It is worth noting that the convolution operation preserves translations and pooling is
unaffected by minor data translations. This is applied to input image properties, such as
corners, edges, and so on, that are translationally invariant, and will still be represented in
the convolution layer’s output.
As a result, CNNs perform well with multidimensional data such as images and speech
signals, in fact is in the domain of images that these networks have been used in a physic
informed network framework.
For more on these topic the reader can look at LeCun et al [92], Chen et al [29], Muhammad
et al [117], Aldweesh et al [2], Berman et al [17], Calin [23]
CNN Architectures
Because CNNs were originally created for image recognition, they are better suited to han-
dling image-like data and may not be directly applicable to scientiﬁc computing problems, as
most geometries are irregular with non-uniform grids; for example, Euclidean-distance-based
convolution ﬁlters lose their invariance on non-uniform meshes.
A physics-informed geometry-adaptive convolutional neural network (PhyGeoNet) was
introduced in Gao et al [48]. PhyGeoNet is a physics-informed CNN that uses coordinate
transformation to convert solution ﬁelds from an irregular physical domain to a rectangular
referencedomain.Additionally,boundaryconditionsarestrictlyenforcedmakingitaphysics-
constrained neural network.
Fang [44] observes that a Laplacian operator has been discretized in a convolution
operation employing a ﬁnite-difference stencil kernel. Indeed, a Laplacian operator can be
discretized using the ﬁnite volume approach, and the discretization procedure is equivalent to
convolution. As a result, he enhances PINN by using a ﬁnite volume numerical approach with
a CNN structure. He devised and implemented a CNN-inspired technique in which, rather
than using a Cartesian grid, he computes convolution on a mesh or graph. Furthermore, rather
than zero padding, the padding data serve as the boundary condition. Finally, Fang [44] does
not use pooling because the data does not require compression.
Convolutional Encoder–Decoder Network
Autoencoders (AE) (or encoder–decoders) are commonly used to reduce dimensionality in
a nonlinear way. It consists of two NN components: an encoder that translates the data from
123
\n88
Page 12 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
the input layer to a ﬁnite number of hidden units, and a decoder that has an output layer with
the same number of nodes as the input layer [29].
For modeling stochastic ﬂuid ﬂows, Zhu et al [200] developed a physics-constrained
convolutional encoder–decoder network and a generative model. Zhu et al [200] propose a
CNN-based technique for solving stochastic PDEs with high-dimensional spatially chang-
ing coefﬁcients, demonstrating that it outperforms FC–NN methods in terms of processing
efﬁciency.
AE architecture of the convolutional neural network (CNN) is also used in Wang et al [177].
The authors propose a framework called a Theory-guided Auto–Encoder (TgAE) capable of
incorporating physical constraints into the convolutional neural network.
Geneva and Zabaras [51] propose a deep auto-regressive dense encoder–decoder and
the physics-constrained training algorithm for predicting transient PDEs. They extend this
model to a Bayesian framework to quantify both epistemic and aleatoric uncertainty. Finally,
Grubiši´c et al [54] also used an encoder–decoder fully convolutional neural network.
2.1.3 Recurrent Neural Networks
Recurrent neural network (RNN) is a further ANN type, where unlike feed-forward NNs,
neurons in the same hidden layer are connected to form a directed cycle. RNNs may accept
sequentialdataasinput,makingthemidealfortime-dependenttasks[29].TheRNNprocesses
inputs one at a time, using the hidden unit output as extra input for the next element [17]. An
RNN’s hidden units can keep a state vector that holds a memory of previous occurrences in
the sequence.
It is feasible to think of RNN in two ways: ﬁrst, as a state system with the property that
each state, except the ﬁrst, yields an outcome; secondly, as a sequence of vanilla feedforward
neural networks, each of which feeds information from one hidden layer to the next. For
RNNs, according to Caterini and Chang [26], the layerwise function f can be written as
fi(hi−1) = α(W · hi−1 + U · xi + b).
where α is an elementwise nonlinearity (a typical choice for RNN is the tanh function), and
where the hidden vector state h evolves according to a hidden-to-hidden weight matrix W,
which starts from an input-to-hidden weight matrix U and a bias vector b.
RNNs have also been enhanced with several memory unit types, such as long short time
memory (LSTM) and gated recurrent unit (GRU) [2]. Long short-term memory (LSTM) units
have been created to allow RNNs to handle challenges requiring long-term memories, since
LSTM units have a structure called a memory cell that stores information.
Each LSTM layer has a set of interacting units, or cells, similar to those found in a neural
network. An LSTM is made up of four interacting units: an internal cell, an input gate, a forget
gate, and an output gate. The cell state, controlled by the gates, can selectively propagate
relevant information throughout the temporal sequence to capture the long short-term time
dependency in a dynamical system [197].
The gated recurrent unit (GRU) is another RNN unit developed for extended memory;
GRUs are comparable to LSTM, however they contain fewer parameters and are hence easier
to train [17].
RNN Architectures
Viana et al [174] introduce, in the form of a neural network, a model discrepancy term
into a given ordinary differential equation. Recurrent neural networks are seen as ideal for
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 13 of 62
88
dynamical systems because they expand classic feedforward networks to incorporate time-
dependent responses. Because a recurrent neural network applies transformations to given
states in a sequence on a periodic basis, it is possible to design a recurrent neural network
cell that does Euler integration; in fact, physics-informed recurrent neural networks can be
used to perform numerical integration.
Viana et al [174] build recurrent neural network cells in such a way that speciﬁc numerical
integration methods (e.g., Euler, Riemann, Runge–Kutta, etc.) are employed. The recurrent
neural network is then represented as a directed graph, with nodes representing individual
kernels of the physics-informed model. The graph created for the physics-informed model
can be used to add data-driven nodes (such as multilayer perceptrons) to adjust the outputs
of certain nodes in the graph, minimizing model discrepancy.
LSTM Architectures
Physicists have typically employed distinct LSTM networks to depict the sequence-to-
sequenceinput-outputrelationship;however,thesenetworksarenothomogeneousandcannot
be directly connected to one another. In Zhang et al [197] this relationship is expressed using
a single network and a central ﬁnite difference ﬁlter-based numerical differentiator. Zhang et
al [197] show two architectures for representation learning of sequence-to-sequence features
from limited data that is augmented by physics models. The proposed networks is made up
of two (PhyLST M2) or three (PhyLST M3) deep LSTM networks that describe state space
variables, nonlinear restoring force, and hysteretic parameter. Finally, a tensor differentiator,
which determines the derivative of state space variables, connects the LSTM networks.
Another approach is Yucesan and Viana [194] for temporal integration, that implement
an LSTM using a previously introduced Euler integration cell.
2.1.4 Other Architectures for PINN
Apart from fully connected feed forward neural networks, convolutional neural networks, and
recurrent neural networks, this section discusses other approaches that have been investigated.
While there have been numerous other networks proposed in the literature, we discovered that
only Bayesian neural networks (BNNs) and generative adversarial networks (GANs) have
been applied to PINNs. Finally, an interesting application is to combine multiple PINNs,
each with its own neural network.
Bayesian Neural Network
IntheBayesianframework,Yangetal[190]proposetouseBayesianneuralnetworks(BNNs),
in their B-PINNs, that consists of a Bayesian neural network subject to the PDE constraint that
acts as a prior. BNN are neural networks with weights that are distributions rather than deter-
ministic values, and these distributions are learned using Bayesian inference. For estimating
the posterior distributions, the B-PINN authors use the Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC)
method and the variational inference (VI). Yang et al [190] ﬁnd that for the posterior estimate
of B-PINNs, HMC is more appropriate than VI with mean ﬁeld Gaussian approximation.
They analyse also the possibility to use the Karhunen–Loève expansion as a stochastic
process representation, instead of BNN. Although the KL is as accurate as BNN and con-
siderably quicker, it cannot be easily applied to high-dimensional situations. Finally, they
123
\n88
Page 14 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
observe that to estimate the posterior of a Bayesian framework, KL–HMC or deep normal-
izing ﬂow (DNF) models can be employed. While DNF is more computationally expensive
than HMC, it is more capable of extracting independent samples from the target distribu-
tion after training. This might be useful for data-driven PDE solutions, however it is only
applicable to low-dimensional problems.
GAN Architectures
In generative adversarial networks (GANs), two neural networks compete in a zero-sum game
to deceive each other. One network generates and the other discriminates. The generator
accepts input data and outputs data with realistic characteristics. The discriminator compares
the real input data to the output of the generator. After training, the generator can generate
new data that is indistinguishable from real data [17].
Yang et al [189] propose a new class of generative adversarial networks (PI–GANs) to
address forward, inverse, and mixed stochastic problems in a uniﬁed manner. Unlike typical
GANs, which rely purely on data for training, PI–GANs use automatic differentiation to
embed the governing physical laws in the form of stochastic differential equations (SDEs)
into the architecture of PINNs. The discriminator in PI–GAN is represented by a basic FFNN,
while the generators are a combination of FFNNs and a NN induced by the SDE.
Multiple PINNs
A ﬁnal possibility is to combine several PINNs, each of which could be implemented using
a different neural network. Jagtap et al [71] propose a conservative physics-informed neural
network (cPINN) on discrete domains. In this framework, the complete solution is recreated
by patching together all of the solutions in each sub-domain using the appropriate interface
conditions. This type of domain segmentation also allows for easy network parallelization,
which is critical for obtaining computing efﬁciency. This method may be expanded to a more
general situation, called by the authors as Mortar PINN, for connecting non-overlapping
deconstructed domains. Moreover, the suggested technique may use totally distinct neural
networks, in each subdomain, with various architectures to solve the same underlying PDE.
Stiller et al [167] proposes the GatedPINN architecture by incorporating conditional compu-
tation into PINN. This architecture design is composed of a gating network and set of PINNs,
hereinafter referred to as “experts”; each expert solves the problem for each space-time point,
and their results are integrated via a gating network. The gating network determines which
expert should be used and how to combine them. We will use one of the expert networks as
an example in the following section of this review.
2.2 Injection of Physical Laws
To solve a PDE with PINNs, derivatives of the network’s output with respect to the inputs
are needed. Since the function u is approximated by a NN with smooth activation function,
ˆuθ, it can be differentiated. There are four methods for calculating derivatives: hand-coded,
symbolic, numerical, and automatic. Manually calculating derivatives may be correct, but it
is not automated and thus impractical [175].
Symbolic and numerical methods like ﬁnite differentiation perform very badly when
applied to complex functions; automatic differentiation (AD), on the other hand, overcomes
numerous restrictions as ﬂoating-point precision errors, for numerical differentiation, or
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 15 of 62
88
Table 1 The main neural network utilized in PINN implementations is synthesized in this table
NN family
NN type
Papers
FF–NN
1 layer / EML
Dwivedi and Srinivasan [41], Schiassi et al [153]
2–4 layers
32 neurons per layer He et al [60] 50 neurons per layer Tartakovsky et al [170]
5–8 layers
250 neurons per layer Zhu et al [199]
9+ layers
Cheng and Zhang [31] Waheed et al [175]
Sparse
Ramabathiran and Ramachandran [148]
multi FC-DNN
Amini Niaki et al [6] Islam et al [69]
CNN
plain CNN
Gao et al [48] Fang [44]
AE CNN
Zhu et al [200], Geneva and Zabaras [51] Wang et al [177]
RNN
RNN
Viana et al [174]
LSTM
Zhang et al [197] Yucesan and Viana [194]
Other
BNN
Yang et al [190]
GAN
Yang et al [189]
We summarize Sect. 2 by showcasing some of the papers that represent each of the many Neural Network implementations of PINN. Feedforward neural networks (FFNNs),
convolutional neural networks (CNNs), and recurrent neural networks (RNN) are the three major families of Neural Networks reported here. A publication is reported for each
type that either used this type of network ﬁrst or best describes its implementation. In the literature, PINNs have mostly been implemented with FFNNs with 5–10 layers. CNN
appears to have been applied in a PCNN manner for the ﬁrst time, by incorporating the boundary condition into the neural network structure rather than the loss
123
\n88
Page 16 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
memory intensive symbolic approach. AD use exact expressions with ﬂoating-point values
rather than symbolic strings, there is no approximation error [175].
Automatic differentiation (AD) is also known as autodiff, or algorithmic differentiation,
although it would be better to call it algorithmic differentiation since AD does not totally auto-
mate differentiation: instead of symbolically evaluating derivatives operations, AD performs
an analytical evaluation of them.
Considering a function f : Rn →Rm of which we want to calculate the Jacobian J, after
calculating the graph of all the operations composing the mathematical expression, AD can
then work in either forward or reverse mode for calculating the numerical derivative.
AD results being the main technique used in literature and used by all PINN implementa-
tions, in particular only Fang [44] use local ﬁtting method approximation of the differential
operator to solve the PDEs instead of automatic differentiation (AD). Moreover, by using
local ﬁtting method rather than employing automated differentiation, Fang is able to verify
that a his PINN implementation has a convergence.
Essentially, AD incorporates a PDE into the neural network’s loss Eq. (2), where the
differential equation residual is
rF[ˆuθ](z) = rθ(z) := F(ˆuθ(z); γ ) −f ,
and similarly the residual NN corresponding to boundary conditions (BC) or initial conditions
(IC) is obtained by substituting ˆuθ in the second equation of (1), i.e.
rB[ˆuθ](z) := B(ˆuθ(z)) −g(z).
Using these residuals, it is possible to assess how well an approximation uθ satisﬁes (1). It
is worth noting that for the exact solution, u, the residuals are rF[u] = rB[u] = 0 [38].
In Raissi and Karniadakis [140], Raissi et al [146], the original formulation of the afore-
mentioned differential equation residual, leads to the form of
rF[ˆuθ](z) = rθ(x, t) = ∂
∂t ˆuθ(x, t) + Fx ˆuθ(x, t).
In the deep learning framework, the principle of imposing physical constraints is repre-
sented by differentiating neural networks with respect to input spatiotemporal coordinates
using the chain rule. In Mathews et al [106] the model loss functions are embedded and
then further normalized into dimensionless form. The repeated differentiation, with AD,
and composition of networks used to create each individual term in the partial differential
equations results in a much larger resultant computational graph. As a result, the cumulative
computation graph is effectively an approximation of the PDE equations [106].
The chain rule is used in automatic differentiation for several layers to compute derivatives
hierarchically from the output layer to the input layer. Nonetheless, there are some situations
in which the basic chain rule does not apply. Pang et al [128] substitute fractional differential
operators with their discrete versions, which are subsequently incorporated into the PINNs’
loss function.
2.3 Model Estimation by Learning Approaches
The PINN methodology determines the parameters θ of the NN, ˆuθ, by minimizing a loss
function, i.e.
θ = arg min
θ
L(θ)
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 17 of 62
88
where
L(θ) = ωFLF(θ) + ωBLB(θ) + ωdLdata(θ).
(6)
The three terms of L refer to the errors in describing the initial Li or boundary condition Lb,
both indicated as LB, the loss respect the partial differential equation LF, and the validation
of known data points Ldata. Losses are usually deﬁned in the literature as a sum, similar to
the previous equations, however they can be considered as integrals
LF(θ) =

¯

F(ˆuθ(z)) −f (zi))
2 dz
This formulation is not only useful for a theoretical study, as we will see in 2.4, but it is
also implemented in a PINN package, NVIDIA Modulus [123], allowing for more effective
integration strategies, such as sampling with higher frequency in speciﬁc areas of the domain
to more efﬁciently approximate the integral losses.
Note that, if the PINN framework is employed as a supervised methodology, the neural
network parameters are chosen by minimizing the difference between the observed outputs
and the model’s predictions; otherwise, just the PDE residuals are taken into account.
As in Eq. (6) the ﬁrst term, LF, represents the loss produced by a mismatch with the
governing differential equations F [60, 167]. It enforces the differential equation F at the
collocation points, which can be chosen uniformly or unevenly over the domain  of Eq. (1).
The remaining two losses attempt to ﬁt the known data over the NN. The loss caused by
a mismatch with the data (i.e., the measurements of u) is denoted by Ldata(θ). The second
term typically forces ˆuθ to mach the measurements of u over provided points (z, u∗), which
can be given as synthetic data or actual measurements, and the weight ωd can account for
the quality of such measurements.
The other term is the loss due to mismatch with the boundary or initial conditions, B(ˆuθ) =
g from Eq. (1).
Essentially, the training approach recovers the shared network parameters θ from:
• few scattered observations of u(z), speciﬁcally {zi, u∗
i }, i = 1, . . . , Nd
• as well as a greater number of collocation points {zi,ri = 0}, i = 1, . . . , Nr for the
residual,
The resulting optimization problem can be handled using normal stochastic gradient
descent without the need for constrained optimization approaches by minimizing the com-
bined loss function. A typical implementation of the loss uses a mean square error formulation
[82], where:
LF(θ) = MSEF = 1
Nc
Nc

i=1
∥F(ˆuθ(zi)) −f (zi))∥2 = 1
Nc
Nc

i=1
∥rθ(ui) −ri∥2
enforces the PDE on a wide set of randomly selected collocation locations inside the domain,
i.e. penalizes the difference between the estimated left-hand side of a PDE and the known
right-hand side of a PDE [82]; other approaches may employ an integral deﬁnition of the
loss [61]. As for the boundary and initial conditions, instead
LB(θ) = MSEB =
1
NB
NB

i=1
∥B(ˆuθ(z)) −g(zi))∥2
123
\n88
Page 18 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
whereas for the data points,
Ldata(θ) = MSEdata = 1
Nd
Nd

i=1
∥ˆuθ(zi) −u∗
i ∥2.
computes the error of the approximation u(t, x) at known data points. In the case of a forward
problem, the data loss might also indicate the boundary and initial conditions, while in an
inverse problem it refers to the solution at various places inside the domain [82].
In Raissi and Karniadakis [140], Raissi et al [146], original approach the overall loss (6)
was formulated as
L(θ) = 1
Nc
Nc

i=1
∥∂
∂t ˆuθ(x, t) + Fx ˆuθ(x, t) −ri∥2 + 1
Nd
Nd

i=1
∥ˆuθ(xi, ti) −u∗
i ∥2.
The gradients in F are derived using automated differentiation. The resulting predictions
are thus driven to inherit any physical attributes imposed by the PDE constraint [191]. The
physics constraints are included in the loss function to enforce model training, which can
accurately reﬂect latent system nonlinearity even when training data points are scarce [197].
Observations About the Loss
The loss LF(θ) is calculated by utilizing automated differentiation (AD) to compute the
derivatives of ˆuθ(z) [60]. Most ML libraries, including TensorFlow and Pytorch, provide
AD, which is mostly used to compute derivatives with respect to DNN weights (i.e. θ). AD
permits the PINN approach to implement any PDE and boundary condition requirements
without numerically discretizing and solving the PDE [60].
Additionally, by applying PDE constraints via the penalty term LF(θ), it is possible to use
the related weight ωF to account for the PDE model’s ﬁdelity. To a low-ﬁdelity PDE model,
for example, can be given a lower weight. In general, the number of unknown parameters
in θ is substantially greater than the number of measurements, therefore regularization is
required for DNN training [60].
By removing loss for equations from the optimization process (i.e., settingωF = 0), neural
networks could be trained without any knowledge of the underlying governing equations.
Alternatively, supplying initial and boundary conditions for all dynamical variables would
correspond to solving the equations directly with neural networks on a regular basis [106].
While it is preferable to enforce the physics model across the entire domain, the com-
putational cost of estimating and reducing the loss function (6), while training, grows with
the number of residual points [60]. Apart the number of residual points, also the position
(distribution) of residual points are crucial parameters in PINNs because they can change the
design of the loss function [103].
A deep neural network can reduce approximation error by increasing network expressivity,
but it can also produce a large generalization error. Other hyperparameters, such as learning
rate, number of iterations, and so on, can be adjusted to further control and improve this
issue.
The addition of extra parameters layer by layer in a NN modiﬁes the slope of the activation
function in each hidden-layer, improving the training speed. Through the slope recovery term,
these activation slopes can also contribute to the loss function [71].
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 19 of 62
88
Soft and Hard Constraint
BC constraints can be regarded as penalty terms (soft BC enforcement) [200], or they can
be encoded into the network design (hard BC enforcement) [168]. Many existing PINN
frameworks use a soft approach to constrain the BCs by creating extra loss components
deﬁned on the collocation points of borders. The disadvantages of this technique are twofold:
1. satisfying the BCs accurately is not guaranteed;
2. the assigned weight of BC loss might effect learning efﬁciency, and no theory exists to
guide determining the weights at this time.
Zhu et al [199] address the Dirichlet BC in a hard approach by employing a speciﬁc compo-
nent of the neural network to purely meet the speciﬁed Dirichlet BC. Therefore, the initial
boundary conditions are regarded as part of the labeled data constraint.
When compared to the residual-based loss functions typically found in the literature, the
variational energy-based loss function is simpler to minimize and so performs better [52].
Loss function can be constructed using collocation points, weighted residuals derived by the
Galerkin–Method [76], or energy based. Alternative loss functions approaches are compared
inLietal[94],byusingeitheronlydata-driven(withnophysicsmodel),aPDE-basedloss,and
an energy-based loss. They observe that there are advantages and disadvantages for both PDE-
based and energy-based approaches. PDE-based loss function has more hyperparameters than
the energy-based loss function. The energy-based strategy is more sensitive to the size and
resolution of the training samples than the PDE-based strategy, but it is more computationally
efﬁcient.
Optimization Methods
The minimization process of the loss function is called training; in most of the PINN
literature, loss functions are optimized using minibatch sampling using Adam and the
limited-memory Broyden–Fletcher–Goldfarb–Shanno (L-BFGS) algorithm, a quasi-Newton
optimization algorithm. When monitoring noisy data, Mathews et al [106] found that increas-
ing the sample size and training only with L-BFGS achieved the optimum for learning.
For a moderately sized NN, such as one with four hidden layers (depth of the NN is 5)
and twenty neurons in each layer (width of the NN is 20), we have over 1000 parameters
to optimize. There are several local minima for the loss function, and the gradient-based
optimizer will almost certainly become caught in one of them; ﬁnding global minima is an
NP-hard problem [128].
The Adam approach, which combines adaptive learning rate and momentum methods,
is employed in Zhu et al [199] to increase convergence speed, because stochastic gradient
descent (SGD) hardly manages random collocation points, especially in 3D setup.
Yang et al [189] use Wasserstein GANs with gradient penalty (WGAN–GP) and prove that
they are more stable than vanilla GANs, in particular for approximating stochastic processes
with deterministic boundary conditions.
cPINN [71] allow to ﬂexibly select network hyper-parameters such as optimization tech-
nique, activation function, network depth, or network width based on intuitive knowledge of
solution regularity in each sub-domain. E.g. for smooth zones, a shallow network may be
used, and a deep neural network can be used in an area where a complex nature is assumed.
He et al [60] propose a two-step training approach in which the loss function is mini-
mized ﬁrst by the Adam algorithm with a predeﬁned stop condition, then by the L-BFGS-B
optimizer. According to the aforementioned paper, for cases with a little amount of training
123
\n88
Page 20 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
data and/or residual points, L-BFGS-B, performs better with a faster rate of convergence and
reduced computing cost.
Finally,let’slookatapracticalexamplesforoptimizingthetrainingprocess;dimensionless
and normalized data are used in DeepONet training to improve stability [96]. Moreover the
governing equations in dimensionless form, including the Stokes equations, electric potential,
and ion transport equations, are presented in DeepM&Mnets [21].
In terms of training procedure initialization, slow and fast convergence behaviors are
produced by bad and good initialization, respectively, but Pang et al [128] reports a technique
for selecting the most suitable one. By using a limited number of iterations, one can ﬁrst
solve the inverse problem. This preliminary solution has low accuracy due to discretization,
sampling, and optimization errors. The optimized parameters from the low-ﬁdelity problem
can then be used as a suitable initialization.
2.4 Learning Theory of PINN
This ﬁnal subsection provides most recent theoretical studies on PINN to better understand
how they work and their potential limits. These investigations are still in their early stages,
and much work remains to be done.
Let us start by looking at how PINN can approximate the true solution of a differential
equation, similar to how error analysis is done a computational framework. In traditional
numerical analysis, we approximate the true solution u(z) of a problem with an approximation
scheme that computes ˆuθ(z). The main theoretical issue is to estimate the global error
E = ˆuθ(z) −u(z).
Ideally, we want to ﬁnd a set of parameters, θ, such that E = 0.
When solving differential equations using a numerical discretization technique, we are
interested in the numerical method’s stability, consistency, and convergence [8, 150, 171].
In such setting, discretization’s error can be bound in terms of consistency and stability, a
basic result in numerical analysis. The Lax–Richtmyer Equivalence Theorem is often referred
to as a fundamental result of numerical analysis where roughly the convergence is ensured
when there is consistency and stability.
When studying PINN to mimic this paradigm, the convergence and stability are related to
how well the NN learns from physical laws and data. In this conceptual framework, we use
a NN, which is a parameterized approximation of problem solutions modeled by physical
laws. In this context, we will (i) introduce the concept of convergence for PINNs, (ii) revisit
the main error analysis deﬁnitions in a statistical learning framework, and (iii) ﬁnally report
results for the generalization error.
2.4.1 Convergence Aspects
The goal of a mathematical foundation for the PINN theory is to investigate the convergence
of the computed ˆuθ(z) to the solution of problem (1), u(z).
Consider a NN conﬁguration with coefﬁcients compounded in the vector θ and a cardi-
nality equal to the number of coefﬁcients of the NN, #θ. In such setting, we can consider the
hypothesis class
Hn = {uθ : #θ = n}
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 21 of 62
88
composed of all the predictors representing a NN whose number of coefﬁcients of the archi-
tecture is n. The capacity of a PINN to be able to learn, is related to how big is n, i.e. the
expressivity of Hn.
In such setting, a theoretical issue, is to investigate, how dose the sequence of compute
predictors, ˆuθ, converges to the solution of the physical problem (1)
ˆuθ(n) →u,
n →∞.
A recent result in this direction was obtained by De Ryck et al [37] in which they proved
that the difference ˆuθ(n)−u converges to zero as the width of a predeﬁned NN, with activation
function tanh, goes to inﬁnity.
Practically, the PINN requires choosing a network class Hn and a loss function given
a collection of N-training data [157]. Since the quantity and quality of training data affect
Hn, the goal is to minimize the loss, by ﬁnding a uθ∗∈Hn, by training the N using an
optimization process. Even if Hn includes the exact solution u to PDEs and a global minimizer
is established, there is no guarantee that the minimizer and the solution u will coincide. A ﬁrst
work related on PINN [157], the authors show that the sequence of minimizers ˆuθ∗strongly
converges to the solution of a linear second-order elliptic and parabolic type PDE.
2.4.2 Statistical Learning Error Analysis
The entire learning process of a PINN can be considered as a statistical learning problem, and
it involves mathematical foundations aspects for the error analysis [88]. For a mathematical
treatment of errors in PINN, it is important to take into account: optimization, generalization
errors, and approximation error. It is worth noting that the last one is dependent on the
architectural design.
Let be N collocation points on ¯ = ∪∂, a NN approximation realized with θ, denoted
by ˆuθ, evaluated at points zi, whose exact value is hi. Following the notation of Kutyniok
[88], the empirical risk is deﬁned as

R[uθ] := 1
N
N

i=1
∥ˆuθ(zi) −hi, ∥2
(7)
and represents how well the NN is able to predict the exact value of the problem. The empirical
risk actually corresponds to the loss deﬁned in 2.3, where ˆuθ = F(ˆuθ(zi)) and hi = f (zi)
and similarly for the boundaries.
A continuum perspective is the risk of using an approximator ˆuθ, calculated as follows:
R[ˆuθ] :=

¯
(ˆuθ(z) −u(z))2 dz,
(8)
where the distance between the approximation ˆuθ and the solution u is obtained with the
L2-norm. The ﬁnal approximation computed by the PINN, after a training process of DNN,
is ˆu∗
θ. The main aim in error analysis, is to ﬁnd suitable estimate for the risk of predicting u
i.e. R[ˆu∗
θ].
The training process, uses gradient-based optimization techniques to minimize a generally
non convex cost function. In practice, the algorithmic optimization scheme will not always
ﬁnd a global minimum. So the error analysis takes into account the optimization error deﬁned
as follows:
EO := 
R[ˆu∗
θ] −inf
θ∈

R[uθ]
123
\n88
Page 22 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Because the objective function is nonconvex, the optimization error is unknown. Optimization
frequently involves a variety of engineering methods and time-consuming ﬁne-tuning, using,
gradient-based optimization methods. Several stochastic gradient descent methods have been
proposed,and many PINN use Adam and L-BFGS. Empirical evidence suggests that gradient-
based optimization techniques perform well in different challenging tasks; however, gradient-
based optimization might not ﬁnd a global minimum for many ML tasks, such as for PINN,
and this is still an open problem [157].
Moreover a measure of the prediction accuracy on unseen data in machine learning is the
generalization error:
EG := sup
θ∈
|R[uθ] −
R[uθ]|
The generalization error measures how well the loss integral is approximated in relation
to a speciﬁc trained neural network. One of the ﬁrst paper focused with convergence of
generalization error is Shin et al [157].
About the ability of the NN to approximate the exact solution, the approximation error is
deﬁned as
EA := inf
θ∈
 R[uθ]
The approximation error is well studied in general, in fact we know that one layer neural
network with a high width can evenly estimate a function and its partial derivative as shown
by Pinkus [133].
Finally,asstatedinKutyniok[88],theglobalerrorbetweenthetraineddeepneuralnetwork
ˆu∗
θ and the correct solution function u of problem (1), can so be bounded by the previously
deﬁned error in the following way
R[ˆu∗
θ] ≤EO + 2EG + EA
(9)
These considerations lead to the major research threads addressed in recent studies, which
are currently being investigated for PINN and DNNs in general Kutyniok [88].
2.4.3 Error Analysis Results for PINN
About the approximating error, since it depends on the NN architecture, mathematical foun-
dations results are generally discussed in papers deeply focused on this topic Calin [24],
Elbrächter et al [43].
However, a ﬁrst argumentation strictly related to PINN is reported in Shin et al [158]. One
of the main theoretical results on EA, can be found in De Ryck et al [37]. They demonstrate
that for a neural network with a tanh activation function and only two hidden layers, ˆuθ, may
approximate a function u with a bound in a Sobolev space:
∥ˆuθN −u∥W k,∞≤C ln(cN)k
N s−k
where N is the number of training points, c, C > 0 are constants independent of N and
explicitly known, u ∈W s,∞([0, 1]d). We remark that the NN has width N d, and #θ depends
on both the number of training points N and the dimension of the problem d.
Formal ﬁndings for generalization errors in PINN are provided speciﬁcally for a certain
class of PDE. In Shin et al [157] they provide convergence estimate for linear second-
order elliptic and parabolic type PDEs, while in Shin et al [158] they extend the results to
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 23 of 62
88
all linear problems, including hyperbolic equations. Mishra and Molinaro [113] gives an
abstract framework for PINN on forward problem for PDEs, they estimate the generalization
error by means of training error (empirical risk), and number of training points, such abstract
framework is also addressed for inverse problems [111]. In De Ryck et al [38] the authors
speciﬁcally address Navier–Stokes equations and show that small training error imply a small
generalization error, by proving that
R[ˆuθ] = ∥u −ˆuθ∥L2 ≤

C 
R[uθ] + O

N −1
d
 1
2 .
This estimate suffer from the curse of dimensionality (CoD), that is to say, in order to reduce
the error by a certain factor, the number of training points needed and the size of the neural
network, scales up exponentially.
Finally, a recent work [18] has proposed explicit error estimates and stability analyses for
incompressible Navier–Stokes equations.
De Ryck and Mishra [36] prove that for a Kolmogorov type PDE (i.e. heat equation or
Black–Scholes equation), the following inequality holds, almost always,
R[ˆuθ] ≤

C 
R[uθ] + O

N −1
2
 1
2 ,
and is not dependant on the dimension of the problem d.
Finally, Mishra and Molinaro [112] investigates the radiative transfer equation, which
is noteworthy for its high-dimensionality, with the radiative intensity being a function of
7 variables (instead of 3, as common in many physical problems). The authors prove also
here that the generalization error is bounded by the training error and the number of training
points, and the dimensional dependence is on a logarithmic factor:
R[ˆuθ] ≤
	
C 
R[uθ]2 + c
	(ln N)2d
N


 1
2
.
The authors are able to show that PINN does not suffer from the dimensionality curse for
this problem, observing that the training error does not depend on the dimension but only on
the number of training points.
3 Diﬀerential Problems Dealt with PINNs
The ﬁrst vanilla PINN [146] was built to solve complex nonlinear PDE equations of the
form ut + Fxu = 0, where x is a vector of space coordinates, t is a vector time coordinate,
and Fx is a nonlinear differential operator with respect to spatial coordinates. First and
mainly, the PINN architecture was shown to be capable of handling both forward and inverse
problems. Eventually, in the years ahead, PINNs have been employed to solve a wide variety
of ordinary differential equations (ODEs), partial differential equations (PDEs), Fractional
PDEs, and integro-differential equations (IDEs), as well as stochastic differential equations
(SDEs). This section is dedicated to illustrate where research has progressed in addressing
various sorts of equations, by grouping equations according to their form and addressing
the primary work in literature that employed PINN to solve such equation. All PINN papers
dealing with ODEs will be presented ﬁrst. Then, works on steady-state PDEs such as Elliptic
type equations, steady-state diffusion, and the Eikonal equation are reported. The Navier–
Stokes equations are followed by more dynamical problems such as heat transport, advection-
diffusion-reaction system, hyperbolic equations, and Euler equations or quantum harmonic
123
\n88
Page 24 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
oscillator.Finally,whileallofthepreviousPDEscanbeaddressedintheirrespectiveBayesian
problems, the ﬁnal section provides insight into how uncertainly is addressed, as in stochastic
equations.
3.1 Ordinary Differential Equations
ODEs can be used to simulate complex nonlinear systems which are difﬁcult to model using
simply physics-based models [91]. A typical ODE system is written as
du(x, t)
dt
= f (u(x, t), t)
where initial conditions can be speciﬁed as B(u(t)) = g(t), resulting in an initial value
problem or boundary value problem with B(u(x)) = g(x). A PINN approach is used by Lai
et al [91] for structural identiﬁcation, using Neural Ordinary Differential Equations (Neural
ODEs). Neural ODEs can be considered as a continuous representation of ResNets (Residual
Networks), by using a neural network to parameterize a dynamical system in the form of
ODE for an initial value problem (IVP):
du(t)
dt
= fθ(u(t), t); u(t0) = u0
where f is the neural network parameterized by the vector θ.
The idea is to use Neural ODEs as learners of the governing dynamics of the systems, and
so to structure of Neural ODEs into two parts: a physics-informed term and an unknown dis-
crepancy term. The framework is tested using a spring-mass model as a 4-degree-of-freedom
dynamical system with cubic nonlinearity, with also noisy measured data. Furthermore, they
use experimental data to learn the governing dynamics of a structure equipped with a negative
stiffness device [91].
Zhang et al [197] employ deep long short-term memory (LSTM) networks in the PINN
approach to solve nonlinear structural system subjected to seismic excitation, like steel
moment resistant frame and the single degree-of-freedom Bouc–Wen model, a nonlinear
system with rate-dependent hysteresis [197]. In general they tried to address the problems of
nonlinear equation of motion :
¨u + g = −ag
where g(t) = M−1h(t) denotes the mass-normalized restoring force, being M the mass
matrices; h the total nonlinear restoring force, and  force distribution vector.
Directed graph models can be used to directly implement ODE as deep neural networks
[174], while using an Euler RNN for numerical integration.
In Nascimento et al [121] is presented a tutorial on how to use Python to implement the
integration of ODEs using recurrent neural networks.
ODE-net idea is used in Tong et al [172] for creating Symplectic Taylor neural networks.
These NNs consist of two sub-networks, that use symplectic integrators instead of Runge-
Kutta, as done originally in ODE-net, which are based on residual blocks calculated with the
Euler method. Hamiltonian systems as Lotka–Volterra, Kepler, and Hénon–Heiles systems
are also tested in the aforementioned paper.
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 25 of 62
88
3.2 Partial Differential Equations
Partial Differential Equations are the building bricks of a large part of models that are
used to mathematically describe physics phenomenologies. Such models have been deeply
investigated and often solved with the help of different numerical strategies. Stability and
convergence of these strategies have been deeply investigated in literature, providing a solid
theoretical framework to approximately solve differential problems. In this Section, the appli-
cation of the novel methodology of PINNs on different typologies of Partial Differential
models is explored.
3.2.1 Steady State PDEs
In Kharazmi et al [76, 78], a general steady state problem is addressed as:
Fs(u(x); q) = f (x)
x ∈,
B(u(x)) = 0
x ∈∂
over the domain  ⊂Rd with dimensions d and bounds ∂. Fs typically contains differential
and/or integro-differential operators with parameters q and f (x) indicates some forcing term.
In particular an Elliptic equation can generally be written by setting
Fs(u(x); σ, μ) = −div(μ∇u)) + σu
Tartakovsky et al [170] consider a linear
Fs(u(x); σ) = ∇· (K(x)∇u(x)) = 0
and non linear
Fs(u(x); σ) = ∇· [K(u)∇u(x)] = 0
diffusion equation with unknown diffusion coefﬁcient K. The equation essentially describes
anunsaturatedﬂowinahomogeneousporousmedium,whereu isthewaterpressureand K(u)
is the porous medium’s conductivity. It is difﬁcult to measure K(u) directly, so Tartakovsky
et al [170] assume that only a ﬁnite number of measurements of u are available.
Tartakovsky et al [170] demonstrate that the PINN method outperforms the state-of-the-art
maximum a posteriori probability method. Moreover, they show that utilizing only capillary
pressure data for unsaturated ﬂow, PINNs can estimate the pressure-conductivity for unsatu-
rated ﬂow. One of the ﬁrst novel approach, PINN based, was the variational physics-informed
neural network (VPINN) introduced in Kharazmi et al [76], which has the advantage of
decreasing the order of the differential operator through integration-by-parts. The authors
tested VPINN with the steady Burgers equation, and on the two dimensional Poisson’s equa-
tion. VPINN Kharazmi et al [76] is also used to solve Schrödinger Hamiltonians, i.e. an
elliptic reaction-diffusion operator [54].
In Haghighat et al [56] a nonlocal approach with the PINN framework is used to solve
two-dimensionalquasi-staticmechanicsforlinear-elasticandelastoplasticdeformation.They
deﬁne a loss function for elastoplasticity, and the input variables to the feed-forward neural
network are the displacements, while the output variables are the components of the strain
tensor and stress tensor. The localized deformation and strong gradients in the solution
make the boundary value problem difﬁcult solve. The Peridynamic Differential Operator
(PDDO) is used in a nonlocal approach with the PINN paradigm in Haghighat et al [56].
123
\n88
Page 26 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
They demonstrated that the PDDO framework can capture stress and strain concentrations
using global functions.
InDwivediandSrinivasan[41]theauthorsaddressdifferent1D-2Dlinearadvectionand/or
diffusion steady-state problems from Berg and Nyström [16], by using their PIELM, a PINN
combined with ELM (Extreme Learning Machine). A critical point is that the proposed
PIELM only takes into account linear differential operators.
In Ramabathiran and Ramachandran [148] they consider linear elliptic PDEs, such as
the solution of the Poisson equation in both regular and irregular domains, by addressing
non-smoothness in solutions.
The authors in Ramabathiran and Ramachandran [148] propose a class of partially inter-
pretable sparse neural network architectures (SPINN), and this architecture is achieved by
reinterpreting meshless representation of PDE solutions.
Laplace–Beltrami Equation is solved on 3D surfaces, like complex geometries, and high
dimensional surfaces, by discussing the relationship between sample size, the structure of
the PINN, and accuracy [46].
The PINN paradigm has also been applied to Eikonal equations, i.e. are hyperbolic prob-
lems written as
∥∇u(x)∥2 =
1
v2(x),
∀x ∈,
where v is a velocity and u an unknown activation time. The Eikonal equation describes wave
propagation, like the travel time of seismic wave [162, 175] or cardiac activation electrical
waves [53, 151].
By implementing EikoNet, for solving a 3D Eikonal equation, Smith et al [162] ﬁnd the
travel-time ﬁeld in heterogeneous 3D structures; however, the proposed PINN model is only
valid for a single ﬁxed velocity model, hence changing the velocity, even slightly, requires
retraining the neural network. EikoNet essentially predicts the time required to go from a
source location to a receiver location, and it has a wide range of applications, like earthquake
detection.
PINN is also proved to outperform the ﬁrst-order fast sweeping solution in accuracy tests
[175], especially in the anisotropic model.
Another approach involves synthetic and patient data for learning heart tissue ﬁber ori-
entations from electroanatomical maps, modeled with anisotropic Eikonal equation [53]. In
their implementation the authors add to the loss function also a Total Variation regularization
for the conductivity vector.
By neglecting anisotropy, cardiac activation mapping is also addressed by Sahli Costabal
et al [151] where PINNs are used with randomized prior functions to quantify data uncertainty
and create an adaptive sampling strategy for acquiring and creating activation maps.
Helmholtz equation for weakly inhomogeneous two-dimensional (2D) media under trans-
verse magnetic polarization excitation is addressed in Chen et al [30] as:
∇2Ez (x, y) + εr (x, y) k2
0 Ez = 0,
whereas high frequency Helmholtz equation (frequency domain Maxwell’s equation) is
solved in Fang and Zhan [45].
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 27 of 62
88
3.2.2 Unsteady PDEs
Unsteady PDEs usually describe the evolution in time of a physics phenomena. Also in this
case, PINNs have proven their reliability in solving such type of problems resulting in a
ﬂexible methodology.
3.2.2.1 Advection–Diffusion–Reaction Problems Originally Raissi et al [146] addressed
unsteady state problem as:
ut = Fx(u(x))
x ∈,
B(u(x)) = 0
x ∈∂
where Fx typically contains differential operators of the variable x. In particular a general
advection-diffusion reaction equation can be written by setting
Fx(u(x); b, μ, σ) = −div(μ∇u)) + b∇u + σu,
where, given the parameters b, μ, σ, −div(μ∇u)) is the diffusion term, while the advection
term is b∇u which is also known as transport term, and ﬁnally σu is the reaction term.
Diffusion Problems
For a composite material, Amini Niaki et al [6] study a system of equations, that models heat
transfer with the known heat equation,
∂T
∂t = a ∂2T
∂x2 + bdα
dt
where a, b are parameters, and a second equation for internal heat generation expressed as a
derivative of time of the degree of cure α ∈(0, 1) is present.
Amini Niaki et al [6] propose a PINN composed of two disconnected subnetworks and
the use of a sequential training algorithm that automatically adapts the weights in the loss,
hence increasing the model’s prediction accuracy.
Based on physics observations, an activation function with a positive output parameter
and a non-zero derivative is selected for the temperature describing network’s last layer, i.e. a
Softplus activation function, that is a smooth approximation to the ReLU activation function.
The Sigmoid function is instead chosen for the last layer of the network that represents the
degree of cure. Finally, because of its smoothness and non-zero derivative, the hyperbolic-
tangent function is employed as the activation function for all hidden layers.
Since accurate exotherm forecasts are critical in the processing of composite materials
inside autoclaves, Amini Niaki et al [6] show that PINN correctly predict the maximum part
temperature, i.e. exotherm, that occurs in the center of the composite material due to internal
heat.
A more complex problem was addressed in Cai et al [22], where the authors study a kind
of free boundary problem, known as the Stefan problem.
The Stefan problems can be divided into two types: the direct Stefan problem, in its
traditional form, entails determining the temperature distribution in a domain during a phase
transition. The latter, inverse problem, is distinguished by a set of free boundary conditions
known as Stefan conditions Wang and Perdikaris [178].
The authors characterize temperature distributions using a PINN model, that consists of
a DNN to represent the unknown interface and another FCNN with two outputs, one for
each phase. This leads to three residuals, each of which is generated using three neural
123
\n88
Page 28 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
networks, namely the two phases u(1)
θ , u(2)
θ , as well as the interface sβ that takes the boundary
conditions into consideration. The two sets of parameters θ and β are minimized through the
mean squared errors losses:
LF(θ) = L(1)
r (θ) + L(2)
r (θ)
enforces the two PDEs of the heat equation, one for each phase state:
L(k)
r (θ) = 1
Nc
Nc

i=1

∂u(k)
θ
∂t
(xi, ti) −ωk
∂2u(k)
θ
∂x2 (xi, ti)

2
,
k = 1, 2.
on a set of randomly selected collocation locations {(xi, ti)}Nc
i=1, and ω1, ω2 are two additional
training parameters. While, as for the boundary and initial conditions:
LB(θ) = L(1)
sbc(θ, β) + L(2)
sbc(θ, β) + LsNc(θ, β) + Ls0(β)
where L(k)
sbc are the boundary condition of u(k) on the moving boundary s(t), LsNc is the
free boundary Stefan problem equation, and Ls0 is the initial condition on the free boundary
function. Finally, as for the data,
Ldata(θ) = 1
Nd
Nd

i=1
∥uθ(xi
data, ti
data) −u∗
i ∥2,
computes the error of the approximation u(x, t) at known data points.
With the previous setup the authors in Cai et al [22] ﬁnd an accurate solution, however,
the basic PINN model fails to appropriately identify the unknown thermal diffusive values,
for the inverse problem, due to a local minimum in the training procedure.
So they employ a dynamic weights technique [179], which mitigates problems that arise
during the training of PINNs due to stiffness in the gradient ﬂow dynamics. The method
signiﬁcantly minimizes the relative prediction error, showing that the weights in the loss
function are crucial and that choosing ideal weight coefﬁcients can increase the performance
of PINNs [22].
In Wang and Perdikaris [178], the authors conclude that the PINNs prove to be versatile in
approximating complicated functions like the Stefan problem, despite the absence of adequate
theoretical analysis like approximation error or numerical stability.
Advection Problems
In He and Tartakovsky [59], multiple advection-dispersion equations are addressed, like
ut + ∇· (−κ∇u + vu) = s
where κ is the dispersion coefﬁcient.
The authors ﬁnd that the PINN method is accurate and produces results that are supe-
rior to those obtained using typical discretization-based methods. Moreover both Dwivedi
and Srinivasan [41] and He and Tartakovsky [59] solve the same 2D advection-dispersion
equation,
ut + ∇· (−κ∇u + au) = 0
In this comparison, the PINN technique [59] performs better that the ELM method [41], given
the errors that emerge along borders, probably due to larger wights assigned to boundary and
initial conditions in He and Tartakovsky [59].
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 29 of 62
88
Moreover, in Dwivedi and Srinivasan [41], an interesting case of PINN and PIELM fail-
ure in solving the linear advection equation is shown, involving PDE with sharp gradient
solutions.
He et al [60] solve Darcy and advection-dispersion equations proposing a Multiphysics-
informed neural network (MPINN) for subsurface transport problems, and also explore the
inﬂuence of the neural network size on the accuracy of parameter and state estimates.
In Schiassi et al [153], a comparison of two methods is shown, Deep–TFC and X–TFC, on
how the former performs better in terms of accuracy when the problem becomes sufﬁciently
stiff.Theexamplesaremainlybasedon1Dtime-dependentBurgers’equationandtheNavier–
Stokes (NS) equations.
In the example of the two-dimensional Burgers equation, Jagtap et al [71] demonstrate that
by having an approximate a priori knowledge of the position of shock, one can appropriately
partition the domain to capture the steep descents in solution. This is accomplished through
the cPINN domain decomposition ﬂexibility.
While Arnold and King [9] addressed the Burgers equations in the context of model
predictive control (MPC).
In Meng et al [109] the authors study a two-dimensional diffusion-reaction equation that
involves long-time integration and they use a parareal PINN (PPINN) to divide the time
interval into equal-length sub-domains. PPINN is composed of a fast coarse-grained (CG)
solver and a ﬁner solver given by PINN.
3.2.2.2 Flow Problems
Particular cases for unsteady differential problems are the ones connected to the motion of
ﬂuids. Navier–Stokes equations are widely present in literature, and connected to a large
number of problems and disciplines. This outlines the importance that reliable strategies
for solving them has for the scientiﬁc community. Many numerical strategies have been
developedtosolvethiskindofproblems.However,computationalissuesconnectedtospeciﬁc
methods, as well as difﬁculties that arise in the choice of the discrete spatio-temporal domain
may affect the quality of numerical solution. PINNs, providing mesh-free solvers, may allow
to overcome some issues of standard numerical methods, offering a novel perspective in this
ﬁeld.
Navier–Stokes Equations
Generally Navier–Stokes equations are written as
Fx(u(x); ν, p) = −div[ν(∇u + ∇uT )] + (u + ∇)u + ∇p −f ,
where, u is the speed of the ﬂuid, p the pressure and ν the viscosity [136]. The dynamic
equation is coupled with
div(u) = 0
for expressing mass conservation.
The Burgers equation, a special case of the Navier–Stokes equations, was covered in the
previous section.
Using quick parameter sweeps, Arthurs and King [10] demonstrate how PINNs may
be utilized to determine the degree of narrowing in a tube. PINNs are trained using ﬁnite
element data to estimate Navier–Stokes pressure and velocity ﬁelds throughout a parametric
domain. The authors present an active learning algorithm (ALA) for training PINNs to predict
PDE solutions over vast areas of parameter space by combining ALA, a domain and mesh
generator, and a traditional PDE solver with PINN.
123
\n88
Page 30 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
PINNs are also applied on the drift-reduced Braginskii model by learning turbulent ﬁelds
using limited electron pressure data [106]. The authors simulated synthetic plasma using
the global drift-ballooning (GDB) ﬁnite-difference algorithm by solving a ﬂuid model, ie.
two-ﬂuid drift-reduced Braginskii equations. They also observe the possibility to infer 3D
turbulent ﬁelds from only 2D observations and representations of the evolution equations.
This can be used for ﬂuctuations that are difﬁcult to monitor or when plasma diagnostics are
unavailable.
Xiao et al [186] review available turbulent ﬂow databases and propose benchmark datasets
by systematically altering ﬂow conditions.
Zhu et al [199] predict the temperature and melt pool ﬂuid dynamics in 3D metal additive
manufacturing AM processes.
The thermal-ﬂuid model is characterized by Navier–Stokes equations (momentum and
mass conservation), and energy conservation equations.
They approach the Dirichlet BC in a “hard” manner, employing a speciﬁc piece of the
neural network to solely meet the prescribed Dirichlet BC; while Neumann BCs, that account
for surface tension, are treated conventionally by adding the term to the loss function. They
choose the loss weights based on the ratios of the distinct components of the loss function
[199].
Cheng and Zhang [31] solve ﬂuid ﬂows dynamics with Res–PINN, PINN paired with a
Resnet blocks, that is used to improve the stability of the neural network. They validate the
model with Burgers’ equation and Navier–Stokes (N–S) equation, in particular, they deal with
the cavity ﬂow and ﬂow past cylinder problems. A curious phenomena observed by Cheng
and Zhang [31] is a difference in magnitude between the predicted and actual pressure despite
the fact that the distribution of the pressure ﬁled is essentially the same.
To estimate the solutions of parametric Navier–Stokes equations, Sun et al [168] created a
physics-constrained, data-free, FC–NN for incompressible ﬂows. The DNN is trained purely
by reducing the residuals of the governing N–S conservation equations, without employing
CFD simulated data. The boundary conditions are also hard-coded into the DNN archi-
tecture, since the aforementioned authors claim that in data-free settings, “hard” boundary
enforcement is preferable than “soft” boundary approach.
Three ﬂow examples relevant to cardiovascular applications were used to evaluate the
suggested approaches.
In particular, the Navier–Stokes equations are given [168] as:
F(u, p) = 0 :=
⎧
⎨
⎩
∇· u = 0,
x, t ∈, γ ∈Rd,
∂u
∂t + (u · ∇)u + 1
ρ ∇p −ν∇2u + b f = 0,
x, t ∈, γ ∈Rd
where γ is a parameter vector, and with
I(x, p, u, γ ) = 0,
x ∈, t = 0, γ ∈Rd,
B(t, x, p, u, γ ) = 0,
x, t ∈∂ × [0, T ], γ ∈Rd,
where I and B are generic differential operators that determine the initial and boundary
conditions.
The boundary conditions (IC/BC) are addressed individually in Sun et al [168]. The
Neumann BC are formulated into the equation loss, i.e., in a soft manner, whereas the IC and
Dirichlet BC are encoded in the DNN, i.e., in a hard manner.
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 31 of 62
88
Asalastexample,NSFnets[73]hasbeendevelopedconsideringtwoalternativemathemat-
ical representations of the Navier–Stokes equations: the velocity-pressure (VP) formulation
and the vorticity-velocity (VV) formulation.
Hyperbolic Equations
Hyperbolic conservation law is used to simplify the Navier–Stokes equations in hemody-
namics [81].
Hyperbolic partial differential equations are also addressed by Abreu and Florindo [1]:
in particular, they study the inviscid nonlinear Burgers’ equation and 1D Buckley–Leverett
two-phase problem. They actually try to address problems of the following type:
∂u
∂t + ∂H(u)
∂x
= 0,
x ∈R,
t > 0,
u(x, 0) = u0(x),
whose results were compared with those obtained by the Lagrangian–Eulerian and Lax–
Friedrichs schemes. While Patel et al [130] proposes a PINN for discovering thermody-
namically consistent equations that ensure hyperbolicity for inverse problems in shock
hydrodynamics.
Euler equations are hyperbolic conservation laws that might permit discontinuous solutions
such as shock and contact waves, and in particular a one dimensional Euler system is written
as [71]
∂U
∂t + ∇· f (U) = 0, x ∈ ⊂R2,
where
U =
⎡
⎣
ρ
ρu
ρE
⎤
⎦
f =
⎡
⎣
ρu,
p + ρu2
pu + ρuE
⎤
⎦
given ρ as the density, p as the pressure, u the velocity, and E the total energy. These equations
regulate a variety of high-speed ﬂuid ﬂows, including transonic, supersonic, and hypersonic
ﬂows. Mao et al [103] can precisely capture such discontinuous ﬂows solutions for one-
dimensional Euler equations, which is a challenging task for existing numerical techniques.
According to Mao et al [103], appropriate clustering of training data points around a high
gradient area can improve solution accuracy in that area and reduces error propagation to the
entire domain. This enhancement suggests the use of a separate localized powerful network
in the region with high gradient solution, resulting in the development of a collection of
individual local PINNs with varied features that comply with the known prior knowledge of
the solution in each sub-domain. As done in Jagtap et al [71], cPINN splits the domain into a
number of small subdomains in which multiple neural networks with different architectures
(known as sub-PINN networks) can be used to solve the same underlying PDE.
Still in reference to Mao et al [103], the authors solve the one-dimensional Euler equations
and a two-dimensional oblique shock wave problem. The authors can capture the solutions
with only a few scattered points distributed randomly around the discontinuities. The above-
mentioned paper employ density gradient and pressure p(x, t) data, as well as conservation
laws, to infer all states of interest (density, velocity, and pressure ﬁelds) for the inverse prob-
lem without employing any IC/BCs. They were inspired by the experimental photography
technique of Schlieren.
123
\n88
Page 32 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
They also illustrate that the position of the training points is essential for the training
process. The results produced by combining the data with the Euler equations in characteristic
form outperform the results obtained using conservative forms.
3.2.2.3 Quantum Problems A 1D nonlinear Schrödinger equation is addressed in Raissi
[139], and Raissi et al [146] as:
i ∂ψ
∂t + 1
2
∂2ψ
∂x2 + |ψ|2ψ = 0
(10)
where ψ(x, t) is the complex-valued solution. This problem was chosen to demonstrate
the PINN’s capacity to handle complex-valued answers and we will develop this example
in Sect. 3.4. Also a quantum harmonic oscillator (QHO)
i ∂ψ(x, t)
∂t
+ 1
2Δψ(x, t) −V (x, t) = 0
is addressed in Stiller et al [167], with V a scalar potential. They propose a gating network that
determines which MLP to use, while each MLP consists of linear layers and tanh activation
functions; so the solution becomes a weighted sum of MLP predictions. The quality of the
approximated solution of PINNs was comparable to that of state-of-the-art spectral solvers
that exploit domain knowledge by solving the equation in the Fourier domain or by employing
Hermite polynomials.
Vector solitons, which are solitary waves with multiple components in the the coupled
nonlinear Schrödinger equation (CNLSE) is addressed by Mo et al [115], who extended
PINNs with a pre-ﬁxed multi-stage training algorithm. These ﬁndings can be extendable to
similar type of equations, such as equations with a rogue wave [176] solution or the Sasa–
Satsuma equation and Camassa–Holm equation.
3.3 Other Problems
Physics Informed Neural Networks have been also applied to a wide variety of problems that
go beyond classical differential problems. As examples, in the following, the application of
such a strategy as been discussed regarding Fractional PDEs and Uncertainty estimation.
3.3.1 Differential Equations of Fractional Order
Fractional PDEs can be used to model a wide variety of phenomenological properties found
in nature with parameters that must be calculated from experiment data, however in the
spatiotemporal domain, ﬁeld or experimental measurements are typically scarce and may
be affected by noise [128]. Because automatic differentiation is not applicable to fractional
operators, the construction of PINNs for fractional models is more complex. One possible
solution is to calculate the fractional derivative using the L1 scheme [108].
In the ﬁrst example from Mehta et al [108] they solve a turbulent ﬂow with one dimensional
mean ﬂow.
In Pang et al [128], the authors focus on identifying the parameters of fractional PDEs
with known overall form but unknown coefﬁcients and unknown operators, by giving rise to
fPINN. They construct the loss function using a hybrid technique that includes both auto-
matic differentiation for integer-order operators and numerical discretization for fractional
operators. They also analyse the convergence of fractional advection-diffusion equations
(fractional ADEs)
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 33 of 62
88
The solution proposed in Pang et al [128], is then extended in Kharazmi et al [77] where
they address also time-dependent fractional orders. The formulation in Kharazmi et al [77]
uses separate neural network to represent each fractional order and use a large neural network
to represent states.
3.3.2 Uncertainty Estimation
In data-driven PDE solvers, there are several causes of uncertainty. The quality of the training
data has a signiﬁcant impact on the solution’s accuracy.
To address forward and inverse nonlinear problems represented by partial differential
equations (PDEs) with noisy data, Yang et al [190] propose a Bayesian physics-informed
neural network (B-PINN). The Bayesian neural network acts as the prior in this Bayesian
framework, while an Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC) method or variational inference (VI)
method can be used to estimate the posterior.
B-PINNs [190] leverage both physical principles and scattered noisy observations to give
predictions and quantify the aleatoric uncertainty coming from the noisy data.
Yang et al [190] test their network on some forward problems (1D Poisson equation,
Flow in one dimension across porous material with a boundary layer, Nonlinear Poisson
equation in one dimension and the 2D Allen–Cahn equation), while for inverse problems the
1D diffusion-reaction system with nonlinear source term and 2D nonlinear diffusion-reaction
system are addressed.
Yang et al [190] use also the B-PINNs for a high-dimensional diffusion-reaction system,
where the locations of three contaminating sources are inferred from a set of noisy data.
Yang et al [189] considers the solution of elliptic stochastic differential equations (SDEs)
that required approximations of three stochastic processes: the solution u(x; γ ), the forcing
term f (x; γ ), and the diffusion coefﬁcient k(x; γ ).
In particular, Yang et al [189] investigates the following, time independent, SDE
Fx[u(x; γ ); k(x; γ )] = f (x; γ ),
Bx[u(x; γ )] = b(x; γ ),
where k(x; γ ) and f (x; γ ) are independent stochastic processes, with k strictly positive.
Furthermore, they investigate what happens when there are a limited number of mea-
surements from scattered sensors for the stochastic processes. They show how the problem
gradually transform from forward to mixed, and ﬁnally to inverse problem. This is accom-
plished by assuming that there are a sufﬁcient number of measurements from some sensors
for f (x; γ ), and then as the number of sensors measurements for k(x; γ ) is decreased, the
number of sensors measurements on u(x; γ ) is increased, and thus a forward problem is
obtained when there are only sensors for k and not for u, while an inverse problem has to be
solved when there are only sensors for u and not for k.
A similar result was previously obtained by [195], where they used stochastic data from
sparse sensors, and a PINN to learn the modal functions of the arbitrary polynomial chaos
(aPC) expansion of its solution.
Furthermore, [196] propose two PINNs for solving time-dependent stochastic partial
differential equation (SPDE), based on spectral dynamically orthogonal (DO) and borthog-
onal (BO) stochastic process representation approaches. They tested their PINN on a linear
stochastic advection problem, a stochastic Burgers’ equation, and a nonlinear reaction-
diffusion equation.
123
\n88
Page 34 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Fig. 3 1D nonlinear Shrödinger (NLS) solution module | ¯ψ|. The solution is generated with Chebfun open-
source software [40] and used as a reference solution. We also show the solution at three different time frames,
t = π
8 , π
4 , 3π
8 . We expect the solution to be symmetric with respect to π
4
In order to characterizing shape changes (morphodynamics) for cell-drug interactions,
Cavanagh et al [27] use kernel density estimation (KDE) for translating morphspace embed-
dings into probability density functions (PDFs). Then they use a top-down Fokker–Planck
model of diffusive development over Waddington-type landscapes, with a PINN learning such
landscapes by ﬁtting the PDFs to the Fokker–Planck equation. The architecture includes a
neural network for each condition to learn: the PDF, diffusivity, and landscape. All parameters
are ﬁtted using approximate Bayesian computing with sequential Monte Carlo (aBc-SMC)
methods: in this case, aBc selects parameters from a prior distribution and runs simulations;
if the simulations match the data within a certain level of similarity, the parameters are saved.
So the posterior distribution is formed by the density over the stored parameters [27].
3.4 Solving a Differential Problem with PINN
Finally, this subsection discusses a realistic example of a 1D nonlinear Shrödinger (NLS)
problem, as seen in Fig. 3. The nonlinear problem is the same presented in Raissi [139],
Raissi et al [143], used to demonstrate the PINN’s ability to deal with periodic boundary
conditions and complex-valued solutions.
Starting from an initial state ψ(x, 0) = 2 sech(x) and assuming periodic boundary con-
ditions Eq. (10) with all boundary conditions results in the initial boundary value problem,
given a domain  = [−5, 5] × (0, T ] written as:
⎧
⎪⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎩
iψt + 0.5ψxx + |ψ|2ψ = 0
(x, t) ∈
ψ(0, x) = 2 sech(x)
x ∈[−5, 5]
ψ(t, −5) = ψ(t, 5)
t ∈(0, T ]
ψx(t, −5) = ψx(t, 5)
t ∈(0, T ]
(11)
where T = π/2.
To assess the PINN’s accuracy, Raissi et al [143] created a high-resolution data set by sim-
ulating the Schrödinger equation using conventional spectral methods. The authors integrated
the Schrödinger equation up to a ﬁnal time T = π/2 using the MATLAB based Chebfun
open-source software [40].
The PINN solutions are trained on a subset of measurements, which includes initial data,
boundary data, and collocation points inside the domain. The initial time data, t = 0, are
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 35 of 62
88
{xi
0, ψi
0}N0
i=1, the boundary collocation points are {ti
b}Nb
i=1, and the collocation points on F(t, x)
are {ti
c, xi
c}Nc
i=1. In Raissi et al [143] a total of N0 = 50 initial data points on ψ(x, 0) are
randomly sampled from the whole high-resolution data-set to be included in the training set,
as well as Nb = 50 randomly sampled boundary points to enforce the periodic boundaries.
Finally for the solution domain, it is assumed Nc = 20 000 randomly sampled collocation
points.
The neural network architecture has two inputs, one for the time t and the other one the
location x, while the output has also length 2 rather than 1, as it would normally be assumed,
because the output of this NN is expected to ﬁnd the real and imaginary parts of the solution.
The network is trained in order to minimize the losses due to the initial and boundary
conditions, LB, as well as to satisfy the Schrodinger equation on the collocation points, i.e.
LF. Because we are interested in a model that is a surrogate for the PDE, no extra data,
Ldata = 0, is used. In fact we only train the PINN with the known data point from the initial
time step t = 0. So the losses of (6) are:
LB = 1
N0
N0

i=1
|ψ(0, xi
0) −ψi
0|2
+ 1
Nb
Nb

i=1

|ψi(ti
b, −5) −ψi(ti
b, 5)|2 + |ψi
x(ti
b, −5) −ψi
x(ti
b, 5)|2
and
LF = 1
Nc
Nc

i=1
|F(ti
c, xi
c)|2.
The Latin Hypercube Sampling technique [164] is used to create all randomly sampled points
among the benchmark data prior to training the NN.
In our training we use Adam, with a learning rate of 10−3, followed by a ﬁnal ﬁne-tuning
with LBFGS. We then explore different settings and architectures as in Table 2, by analysing
the Mean Absolute Error (MAE) and Mean Squared Error (MSE). We used the PyTorch
implementation from Stiller et al [167] which is accessible on GitHub. While the benchmark
solutions are from the GitHub of Raissi et al [143].
Raissi et al [143] ﬁrst used a DNN with 5 layers each with 100 neurons per layer and a
hyperbolic tangent activation function in order to represent the unknown function ψ for both
real and imaginary parts. In our test, we report the original conﬁguration but we also analyze
other network architectures and training point amounts.
A comparison of the predicted and exact solutions at three different temporal snapshots
is shown in Figs. 3, and 4. All the different conﬁgurations reported in Table 2 show similar
patterns of Fig. 4, the only difference is in the order of magnitude of the error.
In particular in such Figure, we show the best conﬁguration obtained in our test, with
an average value of 5, 17 · 10−04 according to the MSE. Figure 4 ﬁrst shows the modulus
of the predicted spatio-temporal solution |ψ(x, t)|, with respect to the benchmark solution,
by plotting the error at each point. This PINN has some difﬁculty predicting the central
height around (x, t) = (0, π/4), as well as in mapping value on in t ∈(π/4, π/2) that are
symmetric to the time interval t ∈(0, π/4).
Finally, in Table 2, we present the results of a few runs in which we analyze what happens
to the training loss, relative L2, MAE, and MSE when we vary the boundary data, and initial
123
\n88
Page 36 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Fig. 4 PINN solutions of the 1D nonlinear Shrödinger (NLS) problem. As illustrated in the ﬁrst image, the
error is represented as the difference among the benchmark solution and PINN result, whereas the second
image depicts the PINN’s solution at three independent time steps: t = π/8, π/4, 3/8π. In this case, we
would have expected the solution to overlap at both π/8 and 3/8π, but there isn’t a perfect adherence; in fact,
the MSE is 5, 17 · 10−04 in this case, with some local peak error of 10−01 in the second half of the domain
value data. In addition, we can examine how the error grows as the solution progresses
through time.
4 PINNs: Data, Applications and Software
The preceding sections cover the neural network component of a PINN framework and which
equations have been addressed in the literature. This section ﬁrst discusses the physical
information aspect, which is how the data and model are managed to be effective in a PINN
framework. Following that, we’ll look at some of the real-world applications of PINNs and
how various software packages such as DeepXDE, NeuralPDE, NeuroDiffEq, and others
were launched in 2019 to assist with PINNs’ design.
4.1 Data
The PINN technique is based not only on the mathematical description of the problems,
embedded in the loss or the NN, but also on the information used to train the model, which
takes the form of training points, and impacts the quality of the predictions. Working with
PINNs requires an awareness of the challenges to be addressed, i.e. knowledge of the key
constitutive equations, and also experience in Neural Network building.
Moreover, the learning process of a PINN can be inﬂuenced by the relative magnitudes
of the different physical parameters. For example to address this issue, Kissas et al [81] used
a non-dimensionalization and normalization technique.
However, taking into account the geometry of the problem can be done without effort.
PINNs do not require ﬁxed meshes or grids, providing greater ﬂexibility in solving high-
dimensional problems on complex-geometry domains.
The training points for PINNs can be arbitrarily distributed in the spatio-temporal domain
[128]. However, the distribution of training points inﬂuences the ﬂexibility of PINNs. Increas-
ing the number of training points obviously improves the approximation, although in some
applications, the location of training places is crucial. Among the various methods for select-
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 37 of 62
88
Table 2 Two subtables exploring the effect of the amount of data points on convergence for PINN and the inherent problems of vanilla pINN to adhere to the solution for longer
time intervals, in solving the 1D nonlinear Shrödinger (NLS) Eq. (11)
N0
Nb
Nc
Training loss
relative L2
MAE
MSE
(a) Case where the NN is ﬁxed with 100 neurons per layer and four hidden layers. Only the number the number of training points on boundary conditions are doubled
40
50
20000
9 × 10−4
0.025 ± 0.003
0.065 ± 0.004
0.019 ± 0.002
40
100
20000
1 × 10−3
0.024 ± 0.002
0.065 ± 0.003
0.019 ± 0.002
80
50
20000
6 × 10−4
0.007 ± 0.001
0.035 ± 0.004
0.005 ± 0.001
80
100
20000
6 × 10−4
0.006 ± 0.002
0.033 ± 0.005
0.005 ± 0.002
time t
relative L2
MAE
MSE
(b) Error behavior at various time steps for the best occurrence in Table, when Table 2a, where N0 = 80, Nb = 100, Nc = 20000
0
(5±1)×10−4
0.012 ± 0.002
(4 ± 1) × 10−4
0.39
(15±5)×10−4
0.015 ± 0.002
(12 ± 4) × 10−3
0.79
0.009 ± 0.003
0.038 ± 0.006
0.007 ± 0.003
1.18
0.01 ± 0.004
0.051 ± 0.009
0.009 ± 0.003
1.56
0.005 ± 0.001
0.044 ± 0.005
0.004 ± 0.001
In Table 2a, the NN consists of four layers, each of which contains 100 neurons, and we can observe how increasing the number of training points over initial or boundary
conditions will decrease error rates. Furthermore, doubling the initial condition points has a much more meaningful inﬂuence impact than doubling the points on the spatial daily
domain in this problem setup. In Table 2b, diven the best NN, we can observe that a vanilla PINN has difﬁculties in maintaining a strong performance overall the whole space-time
domain, especially for longer times, this issue is a matter of research discussed in 5.3. All errors, MAE, MSE and L2-norm Rel are average over 10 runs. For all setups, the same
optimization parameters are used, including training with 9000 epochs using Adam with a learning rate of 0.001 and a ﬁnal L-BFGS ﬁne-tuning step
123
\n88
Page 38 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
ing training points, Pang et al [128] addressed lattice-like sampling, i.e. equispaced, and
quasi-random sequences, such as the Sobol sequences or the Latin hypercube sampling.
Another key property of PINN is its ability to describe latent nonlinear state variables
that are not observable. For instance, Zhang et al [197] observed that when a variable’s
measurement was missing, the PINN implementation was capable of accurately predicting
that variable.
4.2 Applications
In this section, we will explore the real-world applications of PINNs, focusing on the positive
leapfrog applications and innovation that PINNs may bring to our daily lives, as well as the
implementation of such applications, such as the ability to collect data in easily accessible
locationsandsimulatedynamicsinotherpartsofthesystem,orapplicationstohemodynamics
ﬂows, elastic models, or geoscience.
Hemodynamics
Three ﬂow examples in hemodynamics applications are presented in Sun et al [168], for
addressing either stenotic ﬂow and aneurysmal ﬂow, with standardized vessel geometries and
varying viscosity. In the paper, they not only validate the results against CFD benchmarks,
but they also estimate the solutions of the parametric Navier–Stokes equation without labeled
data by designing a DNN that enforces the initial and boundary conditions and training the
DNN by only minimizing the loss on conservation equations of mass and momentum.
In order to extract velocity and pressure ﬁelds directly from images, Raissi et al [147]
proposed the Hidden ﬂuid mechanics (HFM) framework. The general structure could be
applied for electric or magnetic ﬁelds in engineering and biology. They speciﬁcally apply it
to hemodynamics in a three-dimensional intracranial aneurysm.
Patient-speciﬁc systemic artery network topologies can make precise predictions about
ﬂow patterns, wall shear stresses, and pulse wave propagation. Such typologies of systemic
artery networks are used to estimate Windkessel model parameters [81]. PINN methodology
is applied on a simpliﬁed form of the Navier–Stokes equations, where a hyperbolic conserva-
tion law deﬁnes the evolution of blood velocity and cross-sectional area instead of mass and
momentum conservation. Kissas et al [81] devise a new method for creating 3D simulations
of blood ﬂow: they estimate pressure and retrieve ﬂow information using data from medical
imaging. Pre-trained neural network models can quickly be changed to a new patient condi-
tion. This allows Windkessel parameters to be calculated as a simple post-processing step,
resulting in a straightforward approach for calibrating more complex models. By process-
ing noisy measurements of blood velocity and wall displacement, Kissas et al [81] present
a physically valid prediction of ﬂow and pressure wave propagation derived directly from
non-invasive MRI ﬂow. They train neural networks to provide output that is consistent with
clinical data.
Flows Problems
Mathews et al [106] observe the possibility to infer 3D turbulent ﬁelds from only 2D data. To
infer unobserved ﬁeld dynamics from partial observations of synthetic plasma, they simulate
the drift-reduced Braginskii model using physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) trained
to solve supervised learning tasks while preserving nonlinear partial differential equations.
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 39 of 62
88
This paradigm is applicable to the study of quasineutral plasmas in magnetized collisional
situations and provides paths for the construction of plasma diagnostics using artiﬁcial intelli-
gence. This methodology has the potential to improve the direct testing of reduced turbulence
models in both experiment and simulation in ways previously unattainable with standard
analytic methods. As a result, this deep learning technique for diagnosing turbulent ﬁelds is
simply transferrable, allowing for systematic application across magnetic conﬁnement fusion
experiments. The methodology proposed in Mathews et al [106] can be adapted to many con-
texts in the interdisciplinary research (both computational and experimental) of magnetized
collisional plasmas in propulsion engines and astrophysical environments.
Xiao et al [186] examine existing turbulent ﬂow databases and proposes benchmark
datasets by methodically changing ﬂow conditions.
In the context of high-speed aerodynamic ﬂows, Mao et al [103], investigates Euler equa-
tions solutions approximated by PINN. The authors study both forward and inverse, 1D and
2D, problems. As for inverse problems, they analyze two sorts of problems that cannot be
addressed using conventional approaches. In the ﬁrst problem they determine the density,
velocity, and pressure using data from the density gradient; in the second problem, they
determine the value of the parameter in a two-dimensional oblique wave equation of state by
providing density, velocity, and pressure data.
Projecting solutions in time beyond the temporal area used in training is hard to address
with the vanilla version of PINN, and such problem is discussed and tested in Kim et al [79].
The authors show that vanilla PINN performs poorly on extrapolation tasks in a variety of
Burges’ equations benchmark problems, and provide a novel NN with a different training
approach.
PINN methodology is also used also to address the 1D Buckley–Leverett two-phase prob-
lem used in petroleum engineering that has a non-convex ﬂow function with one inﬂection
point, making the problem quite complex [1]. Results are compared with those obtained by
the Lagrangian–Eulerian and Lax–Friedrichs schemes.
Finally, Buckley–Leverett’s problem is also addressed in Almajid and Abu-Al-Saud [4],
where PINN is compared to an ANN without physical loss: when only early-time saturation
proﬁles are provided as data, ANN cannot predict the solution.
Optics and Electromagnetic Applications
The hybrid PINN from Fang [44], based on CNN and local ﬁtting method, addresses applica-
tions such as the 3-D Helmholtz equation, quasi-linear PDE operators, and inverse problems.
Additionally, the author tested his hybrid PINN on an icosahedron-based mesh produced by
Meshzoo for the purpose of solving surface PDEs.
A PINN was also developed to address power system applications [114] by solving the
swing equation, which has been simpliﬁed to an ODE. The authors went on to expand on
their research results in a subsequent study [165].
In [85] a whole class of microelectromagnetic problems is addressed with a single PINN
model, which learns the solutions of classes of eigenvalue problems, related to the nucleation
ﬁeld associated with defects in magnetic materials.
In Chen et al [30], the authors solve inverse scattering problems in photonic metamate-
rials and nano-optics. They use PINNs to retrieve the effective permittivity characteristics
of a number of ﬁnite-size scattering systems involving multiple interacting nanostructures
and multi-component nanoparticles. Approaches for building electromagnetic metamaterials
are explored in Fang and Zhan [45]. E.g. cloaking problem is addressed in both Fang and
123
\n88
Page 40 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Zhan [45], Chen et al [30]. A survey of DL methodologies, including PINNs, applied to
nanophotonics may be found in Wiecha et al [183].
AsabenchmarkproblemforDeepM&Mnet,Caietal[21]chooseelectroconvection,which
depicts electrolyte ﬂow driven by an electric voltage and involves multiphysics, including
mass, momentum, cation/anion transport, and electrostatic ﬁelds.
Molecular Dynamics and Materials Related Applications
Long-range molecular dynamics simulation is addressed with multi-ﬁdelity PINN (MPINN)
by estimating nanoﬂuid viscosity over a wide range of sample space using a very small num-
ber of molecular dynamics simulations Islam et al [69]. The authors were able to estimate
system energy per atom, system pressure, and diffusion coefﬁcients, in particular with the
viscosity of argon-copper nanoﬂuid. PINNs can recreate fragile and non-reproducible parti-
cles, as demonstrated by Stielow and Scheel [166], whose network reconstructs the shape and
orientation of silver nano-clusters from single-shot scattering images. An encoder–decoder
architecture is used to turn 2D images into 3D object space. Following that, the loss score is
computed in the scatter space rather than the object space. The scatter loss is calculated by
computing the mean-squared difference error between the network prediction and the target’s
dispersion pattern. Finally, a binary loss is applied to the prediction in order to reinforce the
physical concept of the problem’s binary nature. They also discover novel geometric shapes
that accurately mimic the experimental scattering data.
A multiscale application is done in Lin et al [95, 96], where the authors describe tiny
bubbles at both the continuum and atomic levels, the former level using the Rayleigh–Plesset
equation and the latter using the dissipative particle dynamics technique. In this paper, the
DeepONet architecture [99] is demonstrated to be capable of forecasting bubble growth on
the ﬂy across spatial and temporal scales that differ by four orders of magnitude.
Geoscience and Elastostatic Problems
Based on Föppl–von Kármán (FvK) equations, Li et al [94] test their model to four loading
cases: in-plane tension with non-uniformly distributed stretching forces, central-hole in-plane
tension, deﬂection out-of-plane, and compression buckling. Moreover stress distribution and
displacement ﬁeld in solid mechanics problems was addressed by Haghighat and Juanes [55].
For earthquake hypocenter inversion, Smith et al [163] use Stein variational inference with
a PINN trained to solve the Eikonal equation as a forward model, and then test the method
against a database of Southern California earthquakes.
Industrial Application
A broad range of applications, particularly in industrial processes, extends the concept of
PINN by adapting to circumstances when the whole underlying physical model of the process
is unknown.
The process of lubricant deterioration is still unclear, and models in this ﬁeld have signif-
icant inaccuracies; this is why Yucesan and Viana [194] introduced a hybrid PINN for main
bearing fatigue damage accumulation calibrated solely through visual inspections. They use
a combination of PINN and ordinal classiﬁer called discrete ordinal classiﬁcation (DOrC)
approach. The authors looked at a case study in which 120 wind turbines were inspected once
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 41 of 62
88
a month for six months and found the model to be accurate and error-free. The grease dam-
age accumulation model was also trained using noisy visual grease inspection data. Under
fairly conservative ranking, researchers can utilize the derived model to optimize regreasing
intervals for a particular useful life goal.
As for, corrosion-fatigue crack growth and bearing fatigue are examples studied in Viana et
al [174].
For simulating heat transmission inside a channel, Modulus from NVIDIA [61] trains
on a parametrized geometry with many design variables. They speciﬁcally change the ﬁn
dimensions of the heat sink (thickness, length, and height) to create a design space for various
heat sinks [123]. When compared to traditional solvers, which are limited to single geometry
simulations, the PINN framework can accelerate design optimization by parameterizing the
geometry. Their ﬁndings make it possible to perform more efﬁcient design space search tasks
for complex systems [22].
4.3 Software
Several software packages, including DeepXDE [100], NVIDIA Modulus (previously Sim-
Net) [61], PyDEns [84], and NeuroDiffEq [28] were released in 2019 to make training PINNs
easier and faster. The libraries all used feed-forward NNs and the automatic differentiation
mechanism to compute analytical derivatives necessary to determine the loss function. The
way packages deal with boundary conditions, whether as a hard constraint or soft constraint,
makes a signiﬁcant difference. When boundary conditions are not embedded in the NN but
are included in the loss, various losses must be appropriately evaluated. Multiple loss eval-
uations and their weighted sum complicate hyper-parameter tuning, justifying the need for
such libraries to aid in the design of PINNs.
More libraries have been built in recent years, and others are being updated on a continuous
basis, making this a dynamic ﬁeld of research and development. In this subsection, we will
examine each library while also presenting a comprehensive synthesis in Table 3.
DeepXDE
DeepXDE [100] was one of the initial libraries built by one of the vanilla PINN authors. This
library emphasizes its problem-solving capability, allowing it to combine diverse bound-
ary conditions and solve problems on domains with complex geometries. They also present
residual-based adaptive reﬁnement (RAR), a strategy for optimizing the distribution of resid-
ual points during the training stage that is comparable to FEM reﬁnement approaches. RAR
works by adding more points in locations where the PDE residual is larger and continuing
to add points until the mean residual is less than a threshold limit. DeepXDE also supports
complex geometry domains based on the constructive solid geometry (CSG) technique. This
package showcases ﬁve applications in its ﬁrst version in 2019, all solved on scattered points:
Poisson Equation across an L-shaped Domain, 2D Burgers Equation, ﬁrst-order Volterra inte-
grodifferential equation, Inverse Problem for the Lorenz System, and Diffusion–Reaction
Systems.
Since the package’s initial release, a signiﬁcant number of other articles have been pub-
lished that make use of it. DeepXDE is used by the authors for: for inverse scattering [30],
or deriving mechanical characteristics from materials with MFNNs [98].
While other PINNs are implemented using DeepXDE, like hPINN [78].
123
\n88
Page 42 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Furthermore,moresophisticatedtoolsarebuiltonDeepXDE,suchasDeepONets[99],and
its later extension DeepM&Mnet [21, 104]. DeepONets and their derivatives are considered
by the authors to have the signiﬁcant potential in approximating operators and addressing
multi-physics and multi-scale problems, like inferring bubble dynamics [95, 96].
Finally, DeepXDE is utilized for medical ultrasonography applications to simulate a linear
wave equation with a single time-dependent sinusoidal source function [3], and the open-
source library is also employed for the Buckley–Leverett problem [4]. A list of research
publications that made use of DeepXDE is available online 1
NeuroDiffEq
NeuroDiffEq [28] is a PyTorch-based library for solving differential equations with neural
networks, which is being used at Harvard IACS. NeuroDiffEq solves traditional PDEs (such
as the heat equation and the Poisson equation) in 2D by imposing strict constraints, i.e. by
fulﬁlling initial/boundary conditions via NN construction, which makes it a PCNN. They
employ a strategy that is similar to the trial function approach [89], but with a different form
of the trial function. However, because NeuroDiffEq enforces explicit boundary constraints
rather than adding the corresponding losses, they appear to be inadequate for arbitrary bounds
that the library does not support [12].
Modulus
Modulus [123], previously known as NVIDIA SimNet [61], from Nvidia, is a toolset for
academics and engineers that aims to be both an extendable research platform and a problem
solver for real-world and industrial challenges.
It is a PINN toolbox with support to Multiplicative Filter Networks and a gradient aggrega-
tion method for larger batch sizes. Modulus also offers Constructive Solid Geometry (CSG)
and Tessellated Geometry (TG) capabilities, allowing it to parameterize a wide range of
geometries.
In terms of more technical aspects of package implementations, Modulus uses an integral
formulation of losses rather than a summation as is typically done. Furthermore, global
learning rate annealing is used to ﬁne-tune the weights parameters ω in the loss Eq. 6. Unlike
many other packages, Modulus appears to be capable of dealing with a wide range of PDE
in either strong or weak form. Additionally, the toolbox supports a wide range of NN, such
as Fourier Networks and the DGM architecture, which is similar to the LSTM architecture.
Nvidia showcased the PINN-based code to address multiphysics problems like heat trans-
fer in sophisticated parameterized heat sink geometry [32], 3D blood ﬂow in Intracranial
Aneurysm or address data assimilation and inverse problems on a ﬂow passing a 2D cylinder
[123]. Moreover, Modulus solves the heat transport problem more quickly than previous
solvers.
SciANN
SciANN [55] is an implementation of PINN as a high-level Keras wrapper. Furthermore, the
SciANN repository collects a wide range of examples so that others can replicate the results
and use those examples to build other solutions, such as elasticity, structural mechanics, and
1 https://deepxde.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/research.html.
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 43 of 62
88
vibration applications. SciANN is used by the same authors also for creating a nonlocal PINN
methodinHaghighatetal[56],orforaPINNmulti-networkmodelappliedonsolidmechanics
[57]. Although tests for simulating 2D ﬂood, on Shallow Water Equations, are conducted
using SciANN [72], the authors wrote the feedforward step into a separate function to avoid
the overhead associated with using additional libraries. A general comparison of many types
of mesh-free surrogate models based on machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL)
methods is presented in Hoffer et al [64], where SciANN is used among other toolsets.
Finally, the PINN framework for solving the Eikonal equation by Waheed et al [175] was
implemented using SciAnn.
PyDENs
PyDENs [84] is an open-source neural network PDE solver that allows to deﬁne and conﬁgure
the solution of heat and wave equations. It impose initial/boundary conditions in the NN,
making it a PCNN. After the ﬁrst release in 2019, the development appears to have stopped
in 2020.
NeuralPDE.jl
NeuralPDE.jl is part of SciML, a collection of tools for scientiﬁc machine learning and
differential equation modeling. In particular SciML (Scientiﬁc Machine Learning) [137] is
a program written in Julia that combines physical laws and scientiﬁc models with machine
learning techniques.
ADCME
ADCME [187] can be used to develop numerical techniques and connect them to neural
networks: in particular, ADCME was developed by extending and enhancing the functionality
of TensorFlow. In Xu and Darve [187], ADCME is used to solve different examples, like
nonlinear elasticity, Stokes problems, and Burgers’ equations. Furthermore, ADCME is used
by Xu and Darve [188] for solving inverse problems in stochastic models by using a neural
network to approximate the unknown distribution.
Nangs
Nangs [131] is a Python library that uses the PDE’s independent variables as NN (inputs),
it then computes the derivatives of the dependent variables (outputs), with the derivatives
they calculate the PDEs loss function used during the unsupervised training procedure. It
has been applied and tested on a 1D and 2D advection-diffusion problem. After a release in
2020, the development appears to have stopped. Although, NeuroDiffEq and Nangs libraries
were found to outperform PyDEns in solving higher-dimensional PDEs [134].
TensorDiffEq
TensorDiffEq [107] is a Scientiﬁc Machine Learning PINN based toolkit on Tensorﬂow for
Multi–Worker Distributed Computing. Its primary goal is to solve PINNs (inference) and
inverse problems (discovery) efﬁciently through scalability. It implements a Self–Adaptive
PINN to increase the weights when the corresponding loss is greater; this task is accomplished
by training the network to simultaneously minimize losses and maximize weights.
123
\n88
Page 44 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
IDRLnet
IDRLnet [132] is a Python’s PINN toolbox inspired by Nvidia SimNet [61]. It provides
a way to mix geometric objects, data sources, artiﬁcial neural networks, loss metrics, and
optimizers. It can also solve noisy inverse problems, variational minimization problem, and
integral differential equations.
Elvet
Elvet [7] is a Python library for solving differential equations and variational problems. It can
solve systems of coupled ODEs or PDEs (like the quantum harmonic oscillator) and varia-
tional problems involving minimization of a given functional (like the catenary or geodesics
solutions-based problems).
Other Packages
Packages that are speciﬁcally created for PINN can not only solve problems using PINN, but
they can also be used to provide the groundwork for future research on PINN developments.
However, there are other packages that can take advantage of future research developments,
such as techniques based on kernel methods [74]. Indeed, rather than switching approaches
on optimizers, losses, and so on, an alternative approach with respect to PINN framework is
to vary the way the function is represented. Throughout this aspect, rather than using Neural
Networks, a kernel method based on Gaussian process could be used. The two most notewor-
thy Gaussian processes toolkit are the Neural Tangents [122] kernel (NTK), based on JAX,
and GPyTorch [49], written using PyTorch. Neural Tangents handles inﬁnite-width neural
networks, allowing for the speciﬁcation of intricate hierarchical neural network topologies.
While GPyTorch models Gaussian processes based on Blackbox Matrix–Matrix multiplica-
tion using a speciﬁc preconditioner to accelerate convergence.
5 PINN Future Challenges and Directions
What comes next in the PINN theoretical or applied setup is unknown. What we can assess
here are the paper’s incomplete results, which papers assess the most controversial aspects
of PINN, where we see unexplored areas, and where we identify intersections with other
disciplines.
AlthoughseveralarticleshavebeenpublishedthathaveenhancedPINNscapabilities,there
are still numerous unresolved issues, such as various applications to real-world situations and
equations. These span from more theoretical considerations (such as convergence and sta-
bility) to implementation issues (boundary conditions management, neural networks design,
general PINN architecture design, and optimization aspects). PINNs and other DL methods
using physics prior have the potential to be an effective way of solving high-dimensional
PDEs, which are signiﬁcant in physics, engineering, and ﬁnance. PINNs, on the other hand,
struggle to accurately approximate the solution of PDEs when compared to other numerical
methods designed for a speciﬁc PDE, in particular, they can fail to learn complex physical
phenomena, like solutions that exhibit multi-scale, chaotic, or turbulent behavior.
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 45 of 62
88
Table 3 Major software libraries speciﬁcally designed for physics-informed machine learning
Software Name
Backend
Available for
Usage
License
First release
Code Link
DeepXDE Lu et al [100]
TensorFlow, PyTorch, JAX, PaddlePaddle Python
Solver
Apache-2.0 License v0.1.0 - Jun 13, 2019
deepxde
PyDEns Koryagin et al [84]
Tensorﬂow
Python
Solver
Apache-2.0 License v alpha - Jul 14, 2019
pydens
NVIDIA Modulus Hennigh et al [61] PyTorch
Python based API Solver
Proprietary
v21.06 on Nov 9, 2021
modulus
NeuroDiffEq Chen et al [28]
PyTorch
Python
Solver
MIT License
v alpha - Mar 24, 2019
neurodiffeq
SciANN Haghighat and Juanes [55]
TensorFlow
Python 2.7–3.6
Wrapper MIT License
v alpha - Jul 21, 2019
sciann
NeuralPDE Zubov et al [201]
Julia
Julia
Solver
MIT License
v0.0.1 - Jun 22, 2019
NeuralPDE.jl
ADCME Xu and Darve [187]
Julia TensorFlow
Julia
Wrapper MIT License
v alpha - Aug 27, 2019
ADCME.jl
Nangs Pedro et al [131]
Pytorch
Python
Solver
Apache-2.0 License v0.0.1 - Jan 9, 2020
nangs
TensorDiffEq McClenny et al [107]
Tensorﬂow 2.x
Python
Solver
MIT License
v0.1.0 - Feb 03, 2021
TensorDiffEq
IDRLnet Peng et al [132]
PyTorch, Sympy
Python
Solver
Apache-2.0 License v0.0.1-alpha Jul 05, 2021 idrlnet
Elvet Araz et al [7]
Tensorﬂow
Python
Solver
MIT License
v0.1.0 Mar 26, 2021
elvet
123
\n88
Page 46 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
5.1 Overcoming Theoretical Difficulties in PINN
A PINN can be thought of as a three-part modular structure, with an approximation (the
neural network), a module to deﬁne how we want to correct the approximation (the physics
informed network, i.e. the loss), and the module that manages the minimization of the losses.
The NN architecture deﬁnes how well the NN can approximate a function, and the error we
make in approximating is called approximation error, as seen in Sect. 2.4. Then, how we
decide to iteratively improve the approximator will be determined by how we deﬁne the loss
and how many data points we are integrating or calculating the sum, with the quality of such
deviation measured as the generalization error. Finally, the quality of iterations in minimizing
the losses is dependent on the optimization process, which gives the optimization error.
All of these factors raise numerous questions for future PINN research, the most important
of which is whether or not PINN converges to the correct solution of a differential equation.
The approximation errors must tend to zero to achieve stability, which is inﬂuenced by
the network topology. The outcomes of this research are extremely limited. For example,
the relative error for several neural architectures was calculated by altering the number of
hidden layers and the number of neurons per layer in Mo et al [115]. In another example,
Blechschmidt and Ernst [19] shows the number of successes (i.e. when training loss that is
less than a threshold) after ten different runs and for different network topologies (number
of layers, neurons, and activation function). Instead, Mishra and Molinaro [111] obtain error
estimates and identify possible methods by which PINNs can approximate PDEs. It seems
that initial hidden layers may be in charge of encoding low-frequency components (fewer
points are required to represent low-frequency signals) and the subsequent hidden layers may
be in charge of representing higher-frequency components [105]. This could be an extension
of the Frequency-principle, F-principle [198], according to which DNNs ﬁt target functions
from low to high frequencies during training, implying a low-frequency bias in DNNs and
explaining why DNNs do not generalize well on randomized datasets. For PINN, large-scale
features should arise ﬁrst while small-scale features will require multiple training epochs.
The effects of initialization and loss function on DNN learning, speciﬁcally on gener-
alization error, should be investigated. Many theoretical results treat loos estimation based
on quadrature rules, on points selected randomly and identically distributed. There are some
PINN approaches that propose to select collocations points in speciﬁc areas of the space-time
domain [118]; this should be investigated as well. Finally, dynamic loss weighting for PINN
appears to be a promising research direction [120].
Optimization tasks are required to improve the performances of NNs, which also holds
for PINN. However, given the physical integration, this new PINN methodology will require
additional theoretical foundations on optimization and numerical analysis, and dynamical
systems theory. According to [179, 181], a key issue is to understand the relationship between
PDE stiffness and the impact of algorithms as the gradient descent on the PINNs.
Another intriguing research topic is why PINN does not suffer from dimensionality.
According to the papers published on PINN, they can scale up easily independently of the
size of the problems [112]. The computational cost of PINN does not increase exponentially
as the problem dimensionality increases; this property is common to neural network architec-
ture, and there is no formal explanation for such patterns [36]. Bauer and Kohler [13] recently
demonstrated that least-squares estimates based on FNN can avoid the curse of dimensional-
ity in nonparametric regression. While Zubov et al [202] demonstrates the capability of the
PINN technique with quadrature methods in solving high dimensional problems.
In PINN the process of learning gives rise to a predictor, uθ, which minimizes the empir-
ical risk (loss). In machine learning theory, the prediction error can be divided into two
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 47 of 62
88
components: bias error and variance error. The bias-variance trade-off appears to contradict
the empirical evidence of recent machine-learning systems when neural networks trained to
interpolate training data produce near-optimal test results. It is known that a model should
balance underﬁtting and overﬁtting, as in the typical U curve, according to the bias-variance
trade-off. However, extremely rich models like neural networks are trained to exactly ﬁt (i.e.,
interpolate) the data. Belkin et al [14], demonstrate the existence of a double-descent risk
curve across a wide range of models and datasets, and they offer a mechanism for its genesis.
The behavior of PINN in such a framework of Learning Theory for Deep Learning remains
to be investigated and could lead to further research questions. In particular, the function
class H of the hypothesis space in which PINN is optimized might be further examined by
specifying such space based on the type of differential equations that it is solving and thus
taking into account the physics informed portion of the network.
In general, PINN can fail to approximate a solution, not due to the lack of expressivity in
the NN architecture but due to soft PDE constraint optimization problems Krishnapriyan et
al [86].
5.2 Improving Implementation Aspects in PINN
When developing a PINN, the PINN designer must be aware that there may be additional con-
ﬁgurations that need to be thoroughly investigated in the literature, as well as various tweaks
to consider and good practices that can aid in the development of the PINN, by systematically
addressing each of the PINN’s three modules. From neural network architecture options to
activation function type. In terms of loss development, the approaching calculation of the loss
integral, as well as the implementation of the physical problem from adimensionalization or
the solution space constrains. Finally, the best training procedure should be designed. How to
implement these aspects at the most fundamental level, for each physical problem appears to
be a matter of ongoing research, giving rise to a diverse range of papers, which we addressed
in this survey, and the missing aspects are summarized in this subsection.
Regarding neural networks architectures, there is still a lack of research for non FFNN
types, like CNN and RNN, and what involves their theoretical impact on PINNs [181]; more-
over, as for the FFNNs many questions remain, like implementations ones regarding the
selection of network size [56]. By looking at Table 1, only a small subset of Neural Networks
has been instigated as the network architecture for a PINN, and on a quite restricted set of
problems. Many alternative architectures are proposed in the DL literature [35], and PINN
developmentcanbeneﬁtfromthiswiderangeofcombinationsinsuchresearchﬁelds.Apossi-
ble idea could be to apply Fourier neural operator (FNO) [182], in order to learn a generalized
functional space [138]. N–BEATS [124], a deep stack of fully connected layers connected
with forward and backward residual links, could be used for time series based phenom-
ena. Transformer architecture instead could handle long-range dependencies by modeling
global relationships in complex physical problems [75]. Finally, sinusoidal representation
networks (SIRENs) Sitzmann et al [161] that are highly suited for expressing complicated
natural signals and their derivatives, could be used in PINN. Some preliminary ﬁndings are
already available [67, 185]. A research line is to study if it is better to increase the breadth
or depth of the FFNN to improve PINN outcomes. Some general studies on DNN make dif-
ferent assertions about whether expanding width has the same beneﬁts as increasing depth.
This may prompt the question of whether there is a minimum depth/width below which a
network cannot understand the physics [173]. The interoperability of PINN will also play
an important role in future research [149]. A greater understanding of PINN’s activation
123
\n88
Page 48 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
function is needed. Jagtap et al [70] show that scalable activation function may be tuned
to maximize network performance, in terms of convergence rate and solution correctness.
Further research can look into alternative or hybrid methods of differentiating the differen-
tial equations. To speed up PINN training, the loss function in Chiu et al [33] is deﬁned
using numerical differentiation and automatic differentiation. The proposed can-PINN, i.e.
coupled-automatic-numerical differentiation PINN, shows to be more sample efﬁcient and
more accurate than traditional PINN; because PINN with automatic differentiation can only
achieve high accuracy with many collocation points. While the PINNs training points can
be distributed spatially and temporally, making them highly versatile, on the other hand, the
position of training locations affects the quality of the results. One downside of PINNs is that
the boundary conditions must be established during the training stage, which means that if
the boundary conditions change, a new network must be created [183].
As for the loss, it is important to note that a NN will always focus on minimizing the
largest loss terms in the weighted equation, therefore all loss terms must be of the same order
of magnitude; increasing emphasis on one component of the loss may affect other parts of
it. There does not appear to be an objective method for determining the weight variables in
the loss equation, nor does there appear to be a mechanism to assure that a certain equation
can be solved to a predetermined tolerance before training begins; these are topics that still
need to be researched [119].
It seems there has been a lack of research on optimization tasks for PINNs. Not many
solutions appear to be implemented, apart from standard solutions such as Adam and BFGS
algorithms [184]. The Adam algorithm generates a workﬂow that can be studied using dynam-
ical systems theory, giving a gradient descent dynamic. More in detail, to reduce stiffness
in gradient ﬂow dynamics, studying the limiting neural tangent kernel is needed. Given that
there has been great work to solve optimization problems or improve these approaches in
machine learning, there is still room for improvement in PINNs optimization techniques
[169]. The L-BFGS-B is the most common BFGS used in PINNs, and it is now the most
critical PINN technology Markidis [105].
Moreover, the impact of learning rate on PINN training behavior has not been fully investi-
gated. Finally, gradient normalization is another key research topic [120]. It is an approach
that dynamically assigns weights to different constraints to remove the dominance of any
component of the global loss function.
It is necessary to investigate an error estimation for PINN. One of the few examples comes
from Hillebrecht and Unger [62], where using an ODE, they construct an upper bound on
the PINN prediction error. They suggest adding an additional weighting parameter to the
physics-inspired part of the loss function, which allows for balancing the error contribution
of the initial condition and the ODE residual. Unfortunately, only a toy example is offered in
this article, and a detailed analysis of the possibility of providing lower bounds on the error
estimator needs still to be addressed, as well as an extension to PDEs.
5.3 PINN in the SciML Framework
PINNs, and SciML in general, hold a lot of potential for applying machine learning to critical
scientiﬁc and technical challenges. However, many questions remain unsolved, particularly
if neural networks are to be used as a replacement for traditional numerical methods such
as ﬁnite difference or ﬁnite volume. In Krishnapriyan et al [86] the authors analyze two
basic PDE problems of diffusion and convection and show that PINN can fail to learn the
ph problem physics when convection or viscosity coefﬁcients are high. They found that the
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 49 of 62
88
PINN loss landscape becomes increasingly complex for large coefﬁcients. This is partly due
to an optimization problem, because of the PINN soft constraint. However, lower errors are
obtained when posing the problem as a sequence-to-sequence learning task instead of solving
for the entire space-time at once. These kinds of challenges must be solved if PINN has to be
used beyond basic copy-paste by creating in-depth relations between the scientiﬁc problem
and the machine learning approaches.
Moreover, unexpected uses of PINN can result from applying this framework to different
domains. PINN has been employed as linear solvers for the Poisson equation Markidis [105],
by bringing attention to the prospect of using PINN as linear solvers that are as quick and
accurate as other high-performance solvers such as PETSc solvers. PINNs appear to have
some intriguing advantages over more traditional numerical techniques, such as the Finite
Element Method (FEM), as explained in Lu et al [100]. Given that PINNs approximate
functions and their derivatives nonlinearly, whereas FEM approximates functions linearly,
PINNs appear to be well suited for broad use in a wide variety of engineering applications.
However, one of the key disadvantages is the requirement to train the NN, which may take
signiﬁcantly longer time than more extensively used numerical methods.
On the other hand, PINNs appear to be useful in a paradigm distinct from that of standard
numerical approaches. PINNs can be deployed in an online-ofﬂine fashion, with a single
PINN being utilized for rapid evaluations of dynamics in real-time, improving predictions.
Moving from 2D to 3D poses new obstacles for PINN. As training complexity grows in
general, there is a requirement for better representation capacity of neural networks, a demand
for a larger batch size that can be limited by GPU memory, and an increased training time
to convergence [119]. Another task is to incorporate PINN into more traditional scientiﬁc
programs and libraries written in Fortran and C/C++, as well as to integrate PINN solvers
into legacy HPC applications [105]. PINN could also be implemented on Modern HPC
Clusters, by using Horovod [156]. Additionally, when developing the mathematical model
that a PINN will solve, the user should be aware of pre-normalizing the problem. At the
same time, packages can assist users in dealing with such problems by writing the PDEs in
a symbolic form, for example, using SymPy.
PINNs have trouble propagating information from the initial condition or boundary con-
dition to unseen areas of the interior or to future times as an iterative solver [41, 73]. This
aspect has recently been addressed by Wang et al [180] that provided a re-formulation of
PINNs loss functions that may explicitly account for physical causation during model train-
ing. They assess that PINN training algorithms should be designed to respect how information
propagates in accordance with the underlying rules that control the evolution of a given sys-
tem. With the new implementation they observe considerable accuracy gains, as well as
the possibility to assess the convergence of a PINNs model, and so PINN, can run for the
chaotic Lorenz system, the Kuramoto–Sivashinsky equation in the chaotic domain, and the
Navier–Stokes equations in the turbulent regime. However there is still research to be done
for hybrid/inverse problems, where observational data should be considered as point sources
of information, and PDE residuals should be minimized at those points before propagating
information outwards. Another approach is to use ensemble agreement as to the criterion
for incorporating new points in the loss calculated from PDEs [58]. The idea is that in the
neighborhood of observed/initial data, all ensemble members converge to the same solu-
tion, whereas they may be driven towards different incorrect solutions further away from the
observations, especially or large time intervals.
PINN can also have a signiﬁcant impact on our daily lives, as for the example, from
Yucesan and Viana [194], where PINNs are used to anticipate grease maintenance; in the
industry 4.0 paradigm, they can assist engineers in simulating materials and constructions
123
\n88
Page 50 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
or analyzing in real-time buildings structures by embedding elastostatic trained PINNs [57,
110]. PINNs also fail to solve PDEs with high-frequency or multi-scale structure [47, 179,
181]. The region of attraction of a speciﬁc equilibria of a given autonomous dynamical system
could also be investigated with PINN [152].
However, to employ PINN in a safety-critical scenario it will still be important to analyze
stability and focus on the method’s more theoretical component. Many application areas
still require signiﬁcant work, such as the cultural heritage sector, the healthcare sector, ﬂuid
dynamics, particle physics, and the modeling of general relativity with PINN.
It will be important to develop a PINN methodology for stiff problems, as well as use
PINN in digital twin applications such as real-time control, cybersecurity, and machine
health monitoring [119]. Finally, there is currently a lack of PINNs applications in multi-
scale applications, particularly in climate modeling [68], although the PINN methodology
has proven capable of addressing its capabilities in numerous applications such as bubble
dynamics on multiple scales [95, 96].
5.4 PINN in the AI Framework
PINN could be viewed as a building block in a larger AI framework, or other AI technologies
could help to improve the PINN framework.
For more practical applications, PINNs can be used as a tool for engaging deep rein-
forcement learning (DRL) that combines reinforcement Learning (RL) and deep learning.
RL enables agents to conduct experiments to comprehend their environment better, allowing
them to acquire high-level causal links and reasoning about causes and effects [11]. The main
principle of reinforcement learning is to have an agent learn from its surroundings through
exploration and by deﬁning a reward [159]. In the DRL framework, the PINNs can be used
as agents. In this scenario, information from the environment could be directly embedded
in the agent using knowledge from actuators, sensors, and the prior-physical law, like in a
transfer learning paradigm.
PINNs can also be viewed as an example of merging deep learning with symbolic artiﬁcial
intelligence. The symbolic paradigm is based on the fact that intelligence arises by manipu-
lating abstract models of representations and interactions. This approach has the advantage
to discover features of a problem using logical inference, but it lacks the easiness of adhering
to real-world data, as in DL. A fulﬁlling combination of symbolic intelligence and DL would
provide the best of both worlds. The model representations could be built up directly from a
small amount of data with some priors [50]. In the PINN framework, the physical injection
of physical laws could be treated as symbolic intelligence by adding reasoning procedures.
CausalModelsareintermediatedescriptionsthatabstractphysicalmodelswhileanswering
statistical model questions [154]. Differential equations model allows to forecast a physical
system’s future behavior, assess the impact of interventions, and predict statistical dependen-
cies between variables. On the other hand, a statistical model often doesn’t refer to dynamic
processes, but rather how some variables allow the prediction of others when the experi-
mental conditions remain constant. In this context, a causal representation learning, merging
Machine learning and graphical causality, is a novel research topic, and given the need to
model physical phenomena given known data, it may be interesting to investigate whether
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 51 of 62
88
PINN, can help to determine causality when used to solve hybrid (mixed forward and inverse)
problems.
6 Conclusion
This review can be considered an in-depth study of an innovation process over the last four
years rather than a simple research survey in the ﬁeld of PINNs. Raissi’s ﬁrst research [143,
144], which developed the PINN framework, focused on implementing a PINN to solve
known physical models. These innovative papers helped PINN methodology gain traction
and justify its original concept even more. Most of the analyzed studies have attempted to
personalize the PINNs by modifying the activation functions, gradient optimization proce-
dures, neural networks, or loss function structures. A border extension of PINNs original
idea brings to use in the physical loss function bare minimum information of the model,
without using a typical PDE equation, and on the other side to embed directly in the NN
structure the validity of initial or boundary conditions. Only a few have looked into alterna-
tives to automatic differentiation [44] or at convergence problems [179, 181]. Finally, a core
subset of publications has attempted to take this process to a new meta-level by proposing
all-inclusive frameworks for many sub-types of physical problems or multi-physics systems
[21]. The brilliance of the ﬁrst PINN articles [143, 144] lies in resurrecting the concept of
optimizing a problem with a physical constraint by approximating the unknown function
with a neural network [39] and then extending this concept to a hybrid data-equation driven
approach within modern research. Countless studies in previous years have approximated the
unknown function using ways different than neural networks, such as the kernel approaches
[126], or other approaches that have used PDE functions as constraints in an optimization
problem [63].
However, PINNs are intrinsically driven by physical information, either from the data
point values or the physical equation. The former can be provided at any point in the domain
but is usually only as initial or boundary data. More importantly, the latter are the collocation
points where the NN is forced to obey the physical model equation.
We examined the literature on PINNs in this paper, beginning with the ﬁrst papers from
Raissi et al [143, 144] and continuing with the research on including physical priors on Neural
Networks. This survey looks at PINNs, as a collocation-based method for solving differential
questions with Neural networks. Apart from the vanilla PINN solution we look at most of its
variants, like variational PINN (VPINN) as well as in its soft form, with loss including the
initial and boundary conditions, and its hard form version with boundary conditions encoded
in the Neural network structure.
This survey explains the PINN pipeline, analyzing each building block; ﬁrst, the neural
networks, then the loss construction based on the physical model and feedback mechanism.
Then, an overall analysis of examples of equations in which the PINN methodology has been
used, and ﬁnally, an insight into PINNs on where they can be concretely applied and the
packages available.
Finally, we can conclude that numerous improvements are still possible; most notably,
in unsolved theoretical issues. There is still potential for development in training PINNs
optimally and extending PINNs to solve multiple equations.
Funding Open access funding provided by Universitá degli Studi di Napoli Federico II within the CRUI-CARE
Agreement. The authors have not disclosed any funding.
Data Availability Enquiries about data availability should be directed to the authors.
123
\n88
Page 52 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Declarations
Competing interests The authors have not disclosed any competing interests.
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which
permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give
appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence,
and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the
article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is
not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory
regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder.
To view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
References
1. Abreu, E., Florindo, J.B.: A Study on a Feedforward Neural Network to Solve Partial Differential
Equations in Hyperbolic-Transport Problems. In: Paszynski M, Kranzlmüller D, Krzhizhanovskaya VV,
et al (eds) Computational Science – ICCS 2021. Springer International Publishing, Cham, Lecture Notes
in Comput. Sci. pp. 398–411, (2021) https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-77964-1_31
2. Aldweesh, A., Derhab, A., Emam, A.Z.: Deep learning approaches for anomaly-based intrusion
detection systems: A survey, taxonomy, and open issues. Knowledge-Based Systems 189, 105,124
(2020). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2019.105124, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0950705119304897
3. Alkhadhr, S., Liu, X., Almekkawy, M: Modeling of the Forward Wave Propagation Using Physics-
Informed Neural Networks. In: 2021 IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium (IUS), pp. 1–4, (2021)
https://doi.org/10.1109/IUS52206.2021.9593574, iSSN: 1948-5727
4. Almajid, M.M., Abu-Al-Saud, M.O.: Prediction of porous media ﬂuid ﬂow using physics informed
neural networks. J. Pet. Sci, Eng. 208, 109,205 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.petrol.2021.109205,
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920410521008597
5. Alom, M.Z., Taha, T.M., Yakopcic, C., et al: A state-of-the-art survey on deep learning theory and archi-
tectures. Electron. 8(3) (2019). https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics8030292, https://www.mdpi.com/
2079-9292/8/3/292
6. Amini Niaki, S., Haghighat, E., Campbell, T., et al.: Physics-informed neural network for modelling the
thermochemical curing process of composite-tool systems during manufacture. Computer Methods in
Applied Mechanics and Engineering 384, 113,959 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.2021.113959,
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045782521002966
7. Araz, J.Y., Criado, J.C., Spannowsky, M: Elvet – a neural network-based differential equation and
variational problem solver (2021). arXiv:2103.14575 [hep-lat, physics:hep-ph, physics:hep-th, stat] ,
arXiv: 2103.14575
8. Arnold, D.N.: Stability, Consistency, and Convergence of Numerical Discretizations, pp. 1358–1364.
Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-70529-1_407
9. Arnold, F., King, R: State–space modeling for control based on physics-informed neural networks.
Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 101, 104,195 . https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2021.104195, https://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197621000427
10. Arthurs, C.J., King, A.P.: Active training of physics-informed neural networks to aggregate and
interpolate parametric solutions to the Navier-Stokes equations. J. Comput. Phys. 438:110,364
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2021.110364, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S002199912100259X
11. Arulkumaran, K., Deisenroth, M.P., Brundage, M., et al.: Deep Reinforcement Learning: A Brief Survey.
IEEE Signal Process. Mag. 34(6), 26–38 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2017.2743240
12. Balu, A., Botelho, S., Khara, B., et al.: Distributed multigrid neural solvers on megavoxel domains. In:
Proceedings of the International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage
and Analysis. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, SC ’21, (2021) https://doi.
org/10.1145/3458817.3476218
13. Bauer, B.: Kohler, M: On deep learning as a remedy for the curse of dimensionality in
nonparametric regression. Ann. Statist. 47(4), 2261–2285 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1214/18-
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 53 of 62
88
AOS1747, http://projecteuclid.org/journals/annals-of-statistics/volume-47/issue-4/On-deep-learning-
as-a-remedy-for-the-curse-of/10.1214/18-AOS1747.full
14. Belkin, M., Hsu, D., Ma, S., et al.: Reconciling modern machine-learning practice and the classical
bias-variance trade-off. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. India Sect. 116(32), 15849–15854 (2019). https://doi.org/
10.1073/pnas.1903070116, www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.1903070116
15. Bellman, R.: Dynamic programming. Sci. 153(3731), 34–37 (1966)
16. Berg, J., Nyström, K.: A uniﬁed deep artiﬁcial neural network approach to partial differential equations
in complex geometries. Neurocomputing 317, 28–41 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2018.06.
056, www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092523121830794X
17. Berman, D.S., Buczak, A.L., Chavis, J.S., et al.: A survey of deep learning methods for cyber security.
Inform. 10(4) (2019). https://doi.org/10.3390/info10040122, https://www.mdpi.com/2078-2489/10/4/
122
18. Biswas, A., Tian, J., Ulusoy, S.: Error estimates for deep learning methods in ﬂuid dynamics. Numer.
Math. 151(3), 753–777 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00211-022-01294-z
19. Blechschmidt, J., Ernst, O.G.: Three ways to solve partial differential equations with neural networks –
A review. GAMM-Mitteilungen 44(2), e202100,006 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1002/gamm.202100006,
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/gamm.202100006
20. Cai, S., Mao, Z., Wang, Z., et al.: Physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) for ﬂuid mechanics: a
review. Acta. Mech. Sin. 37(12), 1727–1738 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10409-021-01148-1
21. Cai, S., Wang, Z., Lu, L., et al.: DeepM&Mnet: Inferring the electroconvection multiphysics ﬁelds based
on operator approximation by neural networks. J. Comput. Phys. 436, 110,296 (2021b). https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.jcp.2021.110296, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021999121001911
22. Cai, S., Wang, Z., Wang, S., et al.: Physics-Informed Neural Networks for Heat Transfer Problems. J.
Heat Transf. 143(6) (2021c). https://doi.org/10.1115/1.4050542
23. Calin, O.: Convolutional Networks, pp. 517–542. Springer International Publishing, Cham (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-36721-3_16
24. Calin, O.: Universal Approximators, pp. 251–284. Springer Series in the Data Sciences, Springer Inter-
national Publishing, Cham (2020b). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-36721-3_9
25. Caterini, A.L., Chang, D.E.: In: Caterini, A.L., Chang, D.E. (eds.) Deep Neural Networks in a Mathemat-
ical Framework. Generic Representation of Neural Networks, pp. 23–34. SpringerBriefs in Computer
Science, Springer International Publishing, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-75304-
1_3
26. Caterini, A.L., Chang, D.E.: Speciﬁc Network Descriptions. In: Caterini, A.L., Chang, D.E. (eds.) Deep
Neural Networks in a Mathematical Framework, pp. 35–58. Springer International Publishing, Cham,
SpringerBriefs in Computer Science (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-75304-1_4
27. Cavanagh, H., Mosbach, A., Scalliet, G., et al.: Physics-informed deep learning characterizes morpho-
dynamics of asian soybean rust disease. Nat. Commun. 12(1), 6424 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1038/
s41467-021-26577-1
28. Chen, F., Sondak, D., Protopapas, P., et al.: Neurodiffeq: A python package for solving differential
equations with neural networks. J. Open Source Softw. 5(46), 1931 (2020)
29. Chen, H., Engkvist, O., Wang, Y., et al.: The rise of deep learning in drug discovery. Drug Discov.
Today 23(6), 1241–1250 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.drudis.2018.01.039, www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S1359644617303598
30. Chen, Y., Lu, L., Karniadakis, G.E., et al.: Physics-informed neural networks for inverse problems in
nano-optics and metamaterials. Opt. Express 28(8), 11618–11633 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1364/OE.
384875, www.osapublishing.org/oe/abstract.cfm?uri=oe-28-8-11618
31. Cheng, C., Zhang, G.T.: Deep Learning Method Based on Physics Informed Neural Network with Resnet
Block for Solving Fluid Flow Problems. Water 13(4), 423 (2021). https://doi.org/10.3390/w13040423,
www.mdpi.com/2073-4441/13/4/423
32. Cheung, K.C., See, S.: Recent advance in machine learning for partial differential equation. CCF Trans.
High Performance Comput. 3(3), 298–310 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/s42514-021-00076-7
33. Chiu, P.H., Wong, J.C., Ooi, C., et al.: CAN-PINN: A fast physics-informed neural network based
on coupled-automatic–numerical differentiation method. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Engrg. 395,
114,909 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.2022.114909, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0045782522001906
34. Cybenko, G.: Approximation by superpositions of a sigmoidal function. Math. Control Signals Systems
2(4), 303–314 (1989). https://doi.org/10.1007/BF02551274
35. Dargan, S., Kumar, M., Ayyagari, M.R., et al.: A Survey of Deep Learning and Its Applications: A New
Paradigm to Machine Learning. Arch. Comput. Methods Engrg. 27(4), 1071–1092 (2020). https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11831-019-09344-w
123
\n88
Page 54 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
36. De Ryck, T., Mishra, S.: Error analysis for physics informed neural networks (PINNs) approximating
Kolmogorov PDEs. (2021) arXiv:2106.14473 [cs, math]
37. De Ryck, T., Lanthaler, S., Mishra, S.: On the approximation of functions by tanh neural networks.
Neural Netw. 143, 732–750 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neunet.2021.08.015, www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S0893608021003208
38. De Ryck, T., Jagtap, A.D., Mishra, S.: Error estimates for physics informed neural networks approxi-
mating the Navier-Stokes equations. (2022) arXiv:2203.09346 [cs, math]
39. Dissanayake, M.W.M.G., Phan-Thien, N.: Neural-network-based approximations for solving partial
differential equations. Commun. Numer. Methods Eng. 10(3), 195–201 (1994). https://doi.org/10.1002/
cnm.1640100303, https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/cnm.1640100303
40. Driscoll, T.A., Hale, N., Trefethen, L.N.: Chebfun Guide. Pafnuty Publications, http://www.chebfun.
org/docs/guide/ (2014)
41. Dwivedi, V., Srinivasan, B.: Physics Informed Extreme Learning Machine (PIELM)-A rapid method for
the numerical solution of partial differential equations. Neurocomputing 391, 96–118 (2020). https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.neucom.2019.12.099, www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231219318144
42. EW, Yu. B.: The Deep Ritz Method: A Deep Learning-Based Numerical Algorithm for Solving Vari-
ational Problems. Commun. Math. Stat. 6(1), 1–12 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/s40304-018-0127-
z
43. Elbrächter, D., Perekrestenko, D., Grohs, P., et al.: Deep Neural Network Approximation Theory. IEEE
Trans. Inf. Theory 67(5), 2581–2623 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1109/TIT.2021.3062161
44. Fang, Z.: A High-Efﬁcient Hybrid Physics-Informed Neural Networks Based on Convolutional Neural
Network. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems pp. 1–13. (2021) https://doi.
org/10.1109/TNNLS.2021.3070878
45. Fang, Z., Zhan, J.: Deep Physical Informed Neural Networks for Metamaterial Design. IEEE Access 8,
24506–24513 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2963375
46. Fang, Z., Zhan, J.: A Physics-Informed Neural Network Framework for PDEs on 3D Surfaces: Time
Independent Problems. IEEE Access 8, 26328–26335 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.
2963390
47. Fuks, O., Tchelepi, H.A.: LIMITATIONS OF PHYSICS INFORMED MACHINE LEARNING
FOR NONLINEAR TWO-PHASE TRANSPORT IN POROUS MEDIA. Journal of Machine Learn-
ing for Modeling and Computing 1(1) (2020). https://doi.org/10.1615/.2020033905, https://www.dl.
begellhouse.com/journals/558048804a15188a,583c4e56625ba94e,415f83b5707fde65.html
48. Gao,H.,Sun,L.,Wang,J.X.:PhyGeoNet:Physics-informedgeometry-adaptiveconvolutionalneuralnet-
works for solving parameterized steady-state PDEs on irregular domain. J. Comput. Phys. 428, 110,079
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2020.110079, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0021999120308536
49. Gardner, J.R., Pleiss, G., Bindel, D., et al.: Gpytorch: Blackbox matrix-matrix gaussian process inference
with gpu acceleration. In: Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (2018)
50. Garnelo, M., Shanahan, M.: Reconciling deep learning with symbolic artiﬁcial intelligence: representing
objects and relations. Curr. Opinion in Behav. Sci. 29, 17–23 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cobeha.
2018.12.010, www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352154618301943
51. Geneva, N., Zabaras, N.: Modeling the dynamics of pde systems with physics-constrained deep auto-
regressive networks. J. Comput. Phys. 403, 109,056 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2019.109056,
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021999119307612
52. Goswami, S., Anitescu, C., Chakraborty, S., et al.: Transfer learning enhanced physics informed
neural network for phase-ﬁeld modeling of fracture. Theoret. Appl. Fracture Mech. 106, 102,447
(2020). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tafmec.2019.102447, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S016784421930357X
53. Grandits, T., Pezzuto, S., Costabal, F.S., et al.: Learning Atrial Fiber Orientations and Conductivity
Tensors from Intracardiac Maps Using Physics-Informed Neural Networks. In: Ennis, D.B., Perotti,
L.E., Wang, V.Y. (eds) Functional Imaging and Modeling of the Heart. Springer International Publishing,
Cham, Lecture Notes in Comput. Sci., pp. 650–658 (2021), https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-78710-
3_62
54. Grubiši´c, L., Hajba, M., Lacmanovi´c, D.: Deep Neural Network Model for Approximating Eigenmodes
Localized by a Conﬁning Potential. Entropy 23(1), 95 (2021). https://doi.org/10.3390/e23010095, www.
mdpi.com/1099-4300/23/1/95
55. Haghighat,E.,Juanes,R.:SciANN:AKeras/Tensorﬂowwrapperforscientiﬁccomputationsandphysics-
informed deep learning using artiﬁcial neural networks. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Engrg. 373,
113,552 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.2020.113552, arXiv: 2005.08803
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 55 of 62
88
56. Haghighat, E., Bekar, A.C., Madenci, E., et al.: A nonlocal physics-informed deep learning frame-
work using the peridynamic differential operator. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Engrg. 385,
114,012 (2021a). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.2021.114012, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0045782521003431
57. Haghighat, E., Raissi, M., Moure, A., et al.: A physics-informed deep learning framework for
inversion and surrogate modeling in solid mechanics. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Engrg. 379,
113,741 (2021b). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.2021.113741, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0045782521000773
58. Haitsiukevich, K., Ilin, A.: Improved Training of Physics-Informed Neural Networks with Model Ensem-
bles. (2022) arXiv:2204.05108 [cs, stat]
59. He,
Q.,
Tartakovsky,
A.M.:
Physics-informed
neural
network
method
for
forward
and
backward advection-dispersion equations. Water Resources Research 57(7), e2020WR029,479
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1029/2020WR029479, https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.
1029/2020WR029479, e2020WR029479 2020WR029479
60. He, Q., Barajas-Solano, D., Tartakovsky, G., et al.: Physics-informed neural networks for
multiphysics data assimilation with application to subsurface transport. Adv. Water Resources
141,103,610(2020).https://doi.org/10.1016/j.advwatres.2020.103610,https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0309170819311649
61. Hennigh, O., Narasimhan, S., Nabian, M.A., et al.: NVIDIA SimNet: An AI-Accelerated Multi-Physics
Simulation Framework. In: Paszynski M, Kranzlmüller D, Krzhizhanovskaya VV, et al (eds) Computa-
tional Science – ICCS 2021. Springer International Publishing, Cham, Lecture Notes in Comput. Sci.,
pp. 447–461 (2021), https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-77977-1_36
62. Hillebrecht, B., Unger, B.: Certiﬁed machine learning: A posteriori error estimation for physics-informed
neural networks. Tech. rep., (2022) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2203.17055, arXiv:2203.17055 [cs,
math] type: article
63. Hinze, M., Pinnau, R., Ulbrich, M., et al.: Optimization with PDE constraints, vol. 23. Springer Science
& Business Media, Berlin (2008)
64. Hoffer, J.G., Geiger, B.C., Ofner, P., et al.: Mesh-Free Surrogate Models for Structural Mechanic FEM
Simulation: A Comparative Study of Approaches. Appl. Sci. 11(20), 9411 (2021). https://doi.org/10.
3390/app11209411, www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/11/20/9411
65. Hornik, K., Stinchcombe, M., White, H.: Multilayer feedforward networks are universal approxima-
tors. Neural Networks 2(5), 359–366 (1989). https://doi.org/10.1016/0893-6080(89)90020-8, www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0893608089900208
66. Huang, G.B., Wang, D.H., Lan, Y.: Extreme learning machines: a survey. Int. J. Mach. Learn. Cybern.
2(2), 107–122 (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/s13042-011-0019-y
67. Huang, X., Liu, H., Shi, B., et al.: Solving Partial Differential Equations with Point Source Based on
Physics-Informed Neural Networks. (2021) arXiv:2111.01394 [physics]
68. Irrgang, C., Boers, N., Sonnewald, M., et al.: Towards neural Earth system modelling by integrating
artiﬁcial intelligence in Earth system science. Nat. Mach. Intelligence 3(8), 667–674 (2021). https://doi.
org/10.1038/s42256-021-00374-3, www.nature.com/articles/s42256-021-00374-3
69. Islam, M., Thakur, M.S.H., Mojumder, S., et al.: Extraction of material properties through multi-
ﬁdelity deep learning from molecular dynamics simulation. Comput. Mater. Sci. 188, 110,187 (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.commatsci.2020.110187, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0927025620306789
70. Jagtap, A.D., Kawaguchi, K., Karniadakis, G.E.: Adaptive activation functions accelerate convergence
in deep and physics-informed neural networks. J. Comput. Phys. 404, 109,136 (2020a). https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.jcp.2019.109136, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021999119308411
71. Jagtap, A.D., Kharazmi, E., Karniadakis, G.E.: Conservative physics-informed neural networks on dis-
crete domains for conservation laws: Applications to forward and inverse problems. Comput. Methods
Appl. Mech. Engrg. 365, 113,028 (2020b). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.2020.113028, https://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045782520302127
72. Jamali, B., Haghighat, E., Ignjatovic, A., et al.: Machine learning for accelerating 2D ﬂood models:
Potential and challenges. Hydrological Processes 35(4), e14,064 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1002/hyp.
14064, https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/hyp.14064
73. Jin, X., Cai, S., Li, H., et al.: NSFnets (Navier-Stokes ﬂow nets): Physics-informed neural networks for
the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations. J. Comput. Phys. 426, 109,951 (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.jcp.2020.109951, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021999120307257
74. Karniadakis, G.E., Kevrekidis, I.G., Lu, L., et al.: Physics-informed machine learning. Nature Reviews
Phys. 3(6), 422–440 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1038/s42254-021-00314-5, www.nature.com/articles/
s42254-021-00314-5
123
\n88
Page 56 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
75. Kashinath, K., Mustafa, M., Albert, A., et al.: Physics-informed machine learning: case studies
for weather and climate modelling. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A: Mathemat-
ical, Phys. Eng. Sci. 379(2194), 20200,093 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1098/rsta.2020.0093, https://
royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/full/10.1098/rsta.2020.0093
76. Kharazmi, E., Zhang, Z., Karniadakis, G.E.: Variational Physics-Informed Neural Networks For Solving
Partial Differential Equations. (2019) arXiv:1912.00873 [physics, stat]
77. Kharazmi, E., Cai, M., Zheng, X., et al.: Identiﬁability and predictability of integer- and fractional-order
epidemiological models using physics-informed neural networks. Nature Comput. Sci. 1(11), 744–753
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1038/s43588-021-00158-0
78. Kharazmi, E., Zhang, Z., Karniadakis, G.E.M.: hp-VPINNs: Variational physics-informed neu-
ral networks with domain decomposition. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Engrg. 374, 113,547
(2021b). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.2020.113547, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0045782520307325
79. Kim, J., Lee, K., Lee, D., et al.: DPM: A Novel Training Method for Physics-Informed Neural Networks
in Extrapolation. Proc. AAAI Conf. Artif. Intell. 35(9), 8146–8154 (2021a). https://ojs.aaai.org/index.
php/AAAI/article/view/16992
80. Kim, S.W., Kim, I., Lee, J., et al.: Knowledge Integration into deep learning in dynamical systems:
an overview and taxonomy. J. Mech. Sci. Technol. 35(4), 1331–1342 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/
s12206-021-0342-5
81. Kissas, G., Yang, Y., Hwuang, E., et al.: Machine learning in cardiovascular ﬂows modeling: Predicting
arterial blood pressure from non-invasive 4D ﬂow MRI data using physics-informed neural networks.
Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Engrg. 358, 112,623 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.2019.112623,
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045782519305055
82. Kollmannsberger, S., D’Angella, D., Jokeit, M., et al.: Physics-Informed Neural Networks. In: Koll-
mannsberger, S., D’Angella, D., Jokeit, M., et al. (eds.) Deep Learning in Computational Mechanics,
pp. 55–84. Studies in Computational Intelligence, Springer International Publishing, Cham (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-76587-3_5
83. Kondor, R., Trivedi, S.: On the Generalization of Equivariance and Convolution in Neural Networks to the
Action of Compact Groups. In: Dy J, Krause A (eds) Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on
Machine Learning, Proc. Mach. Learn. Res., vol 80. PMLR, pp. 2747–2755 (2018), https://proceedings.
mlr.press/v80/kondor18a.html
84. Koryagin, A., Khudorozkov, R., Tsimfer, S.: PyDEns: a Python Framework for Solving Differential
Equations with Neural Networks. (2019) arXiv:1909.11544 [cs, stat]
85. Kovacs, A., Exl, L., Kornell, A., et al.: Conditional physics informed neural networks. Commun. Nonlin-
ear Sci. Numer. Simulation 104, 106,041 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cnsns.2021.106041, https://
www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1007570421003531
86. Krishnapriyan,A.,Gholami,A.,Zhe,S.,etal.:Characterizingpossiblefailuremodesinphysics-informed
neural networks. In: Ranzato, M., Beygelzimer, A., Dauphin, Y., et al (eds) Advances in Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems, vol 34. Curran Associates, Inc., pp. 26,548–26,560 (2021), https://proceedings.
neurips.cc/paper/2021/ﬁle/df438e5206f31600e6ae4af72f2725f1-Paper.pdf
87. Kumar, M., Yadav, N.: Multilayer perceptrons and radial basis function neural network methods for the
solution of differential equations: A survey. Computers & Mathematics with Applications 62(10), 3796–
3811(2011).https://doi.org/10.1016/j.camwa.2011.09.028,www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0898122111007966
88. Kutyniok, G.: The Mathematics of Artiﬁcial Intelligence (2022). arXiv:2203.08890 [cs, math, stat]
89. Lagaris, I., Likas, A., Fotiadis, D.: Artiﬁcial neural networks for solving ordinary and partial differential
equations. IEEE Trans. Neural Networks 9(5), 987–1000 (1998). https://doi.org/10.1109/72.712178
90. Lagaris, I., Likas, A., Papageorgiou, D.: Neural-network methods for boundary value problems with
irregular boundaries. IEEE Trans. Neural Networks 11(5), 1041–1049 (2000). https://doi.org/10.1109/
72.870037
91. Lai, Z., Mylonas, C., Nagarajaiah, S., et al.: Structural identiﬁcation with physics-informed neural
ordinary differential equations. J. Sound and Vibration 508, 116,196 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jsv.2021.116196, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022460X21002686
92. LeCun, Y., Bengio, Y., Hinton, G.: Deep learning. Nature 521(7553), 436–444 (2015). https://doi.org/
10.1038/nature14539
93. Lee, H., Kang, I.S.: Neural algorithm for solving differential equations. J. Comput. Phys. 91(1), 110–
131 (1990). https://doi.org/10.1016/0021-9991(90)90007-N, www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/002199919090007N
94. Li, W., Bazant, M.Z., Zhu, J.: A physics-guided neural network framework for elastic plates: Com-
parison of governing equations-based and energy-based approaches. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech.
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 57 of 62
88
Engrg. 383, 113,933 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.2021.113933, https://www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S004578252100270X
95. Lin, C., Li, Z., Lu, L., et al.: Operator learning for predicting multiscale bubble growth dynamics. J.
Chem. Phys. 154(10), 104,118 (2021a). https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0041203, https://aip.scitation.org/doi/
10.1063/5.0041203
96. Lin, C., Maxey, M., Li, Z., et al.: A seamless multiscale operator neural network for inferring bubble
dynamics. J. Fluid Mech. 929 (2021b). https://doi.org/10.1017/jfm.2021.866, https://www.cambridge.
org/core/journals/journal-of-ﬂuid-mechanics/article/seamless-multiscale-operator-neural-network-
for-inferring-bubble-dynamics/D516AB0EF954D0FF56AD864DB2618E94
97. Liu, D., Wang, Y.: A Dual-Dimer method for training physics-constrained neural networks with minimax
architecture. Neural Netw. 136, 112–125 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neunet.2020.12.028, www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0893608020304536
98. Lu, L., Dao, M., Kumar, P., et al.: Extraction of mechanical properties of materials through deep learning
from instrumented indentation. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. India Sect. 117(13), 7052–7062 (2020). https://
doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1922210117, www.pnas.org/content/117/13/7052
99. Lu, L., Jin, P., Pang, G., et al.: Learning nonlinear operators via DeepONet based on the universal
approximation theorem of operators. Nat. Mac. Intell. 3(3), 218–229 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1038/
s42256-021-00302-5, www.nature.com/articles/s42256-021-00302-5
100. Lu, L., Meng, X., Mao, Z., et al.: DeepXDE: A deep learning library for solving differential equations.
SIAM Rev. 63(1), 208–228 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1137/19M1274067
101. Lu, L., Pestourie, R., Yao, W., et al.: Physics-informed neural networks with hard constraints for inverse
design. SIAM J. Sci. Comput. 43(6), B1105–B1132 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1137/21M1397908
102. Mallat, S.: Understanding deep convolutional networks. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society
A: Mathematical, Phys. Eng. Sci. 374(2065), 20150,203 (2016). https://doi.org/10.1098/rsta.2015.0203,
https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rsta.2015.0203
103. Mao, Z., Jagtap, A.D., Karniadakis, G.E.: Physics-informed neural networks for high-speed ﬂows. Com-
put. Methods Appl. Mech. Engrg. 360, 112,789 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.2019.112789,
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045782519306814
104. Mao, Z., Lu, L., Marxen, O., et al.: DeepM&Mnet for hypersonics: Predicting the coupled ﬂow and
ﬁnite-rate chemistry behind a normal shock using neural-network approximation of operators. J. Comput.
Phys. 447, 110,698 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2021.110698, https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0021999121005933
105. Markidis, S.: The Old and the New: Can Physics-Informed Deep-Learning Replace Traditional Linear
Solvers? Frontiers in Big Data 4 (2021). https://www.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fdata.2021.669097
106. Mathews, A., Francisquez, M., Hughes, J.W., et al.: Uncovering turbulent plasma dynamics via deep
learning from partial observations. Phys. Review E 104(2) (2021). https://doi.org/10.1103/physreve.
104.025205, https://www.osti.gov/pages/biblio/1813020
107. McClenny, L.D., Haile, M.A., Braga-Neto, U.M.: Tensordiffeq: Scalable multi-gpu forward and inverse
solvers for physics informed neural networks. (2021) arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.16034
108. Mehta,P.P.,Pang,G.,Song,F.,etal.:Discovering auniversalvariable-order fractional model for turbulent
couette ﬂow using a physics-informed neural network. Fract. Calc. Appl. Anal. 22(6), 1675–1688 (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1515/fca-2019-0086
109. Meng, X., Li, Z., Zhang, D., et al.: Ppinn: Parareal physics-informed neural network for time-dependent
pdes. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Engrg. 370, 113,250 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.2020.
113250, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045782520304357
110. Minh Nguyen-Thanh, V., Trong Khiem Nguyen, L., Rabczuk, T., et al.: A surrogate model for computa-
tional homogenization of elastostatics at ﬁnite strain using high-dimensional model representation-based
neural network. Int. J. Numer. Methods Eng. 121(21), 4811–4842 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1002/nme.
6493, https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/nme.6493
111. Mishra, S., Molinaro, R.: Estimates on the generalization error of physics-informed neural networks for
approximating a class of inverse problems for PDEs. IMA J. Numer. Anal. (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1093/imanum/drab032
112. Mishra, S., Molinaro, R.: Physics informed neural networks for simulating radiative transfer. J. Quant.
Spectroscopy and Radiative Transf. 270, 107,705 (2021b). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2021.107705,
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407321001989
113. Mishra, S., Molinaro, R.: Estimates on the generalization error of physics-informed neural networks for
approximating PDEs. IMA J. Numer. Anal. p drab093 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1093/imanum/drab093
114. Misyris, G.S., Venzke, A., Chatzivasileiadis, S.: Physics-informed neural networks for power systems.
2020 IEEE Power & Energy Society General Meeting (PESGM) pp. 1–5 (2020)
123
\n88
Page 58 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
115. Mo, Y., Ling, L., Zeng, D.: Data-driven vector soliton solutions of coupled nonlinear Schrödinger
equation using a deep learning algorithm. Phys. Lett. A 421, 127,739 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
physleta.2021.127739, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0375960121006034
116. Moseley, B., Markham, A., Nissen-Meyer, T.: Finite Basis Physics-Informed Neural Networks
(FBPINNs): a scalable domain decomposition approach for solving differential equations. (2021)
arXiv:2107.07871 [physics]
117. Muhammad, A.N., Aseere, A.M., Chiroma, H., et al.: Deep learning application in smart cities: recent
development, taxonomy, challenges and research prospects. Neural Comput. Appl. 33(7), 2973–3009
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00521-020-05151-8
118. Nabian, M.A., Gladstone, R.J., Meidani, H.: Efﬁcient training of physics-informed neural networks via
importance sampling. Comput. Aided Civil Infrastruct. Eng. 36(8), 962–977 (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1111/mice.12685, https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/mice.12685
119. Nandi, T., Hennigh, O., Nabian, M., et al.: Progress Towards Solving High Reynolds Number Reacting
Flows in SimNet. Tech. rep., (2021) https://www.osti.gov/biblio/1846970-progress-towards-solving-
high-reynolds-number-reacting-ﬂows-simnet
120. Nandi, T., Hennigh, O., Nabian, M., et al.: Developing Digital Twins for Energy Applications Using
Modulus. Tech. rep., (2022) https://www.osti.gov/biblio/1866819
121. Nascimento, R.G., Fricke, K., Viana, F.A.: A tutorial on solving ordinary differential equa-
tions using python and hybrid physics-informed neural network. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell.
96, 103,996. (2020) https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2020.103996, https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S095219762030292X
122. Novak, R., Xiao, L., Hron, J., et al.: Neural tangents: Fast and easy inﬁnite neural networks in python.
In: International Conference on Learning Representations, (2020) https://github.com/google/neural-
tangents
123. NVIDIA Corporation (2021) Modulus User Guide. https://developer.nvidia.com/modulus-user-guide-
v2106, release v21.06 – November 9, (2021)
124. Oreshkin, B.N., Carpov, D., Chapados, N., et al.: N-BEATS: Neural basis expansion analysis for inter-
pretable time series forecasting. (2020) arXiv:1905.10437 [cs, stat]
125. Owhadi, H.: Bayesian numerical homogenization. Multiscale Model. Simul 13(3), 812–828 (2015).
https://doi.org/10.1137/140974596
126. Owhadi, H., Yoo, G.R.: Kernel Flows: From learning kernels from data into the abyss. J. Comput. Phys.
389, 22–47 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2019.03.040, www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0021999119302232
127. Özbay, A.G., Hamzehloo, A., Laizet, S., et al.: Poisson CNN: Convolutional neural networks for the
solution of the Poisson equation on a Cartesian mesh. Data-Centric Engineering 2. (2021) https://
doi.org/10.1017/dce.2021.7,
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/data-centric-engineering/
article/poisson-cnn-convolutional-neural-networks-for-the-solution-of-the-poisson-equation-on-a-
cartesian-mesh/8CDFD5C9D5172E51B924E9AA1BA253A1
128. Pang, G., Lu, L., Karniadakis, G.E.: fPINNs: Fractional Physics-Informed Neural Networks. SIAM J.
Sci. Comput. 41(4), A2603–A2626 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1137/18M1229845, https://epubs.siam.
org/doi/abs/10.1137/18M1229845
129. Paszke, A., Gross, S., Chintala, S., et al.: Automatic differentiation in PyTorch. Tech. rep., (2017) https://
openreview.net/forum?id=BJJsrmfCZ
130. Patel, R.G., Manickam, I., Trask, N.A., et al.: Thermodynamically consistent physics-informed neural
networks for hyperbolic systems. J. Comput. Phys. 449, 110,754 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.
2021.110754, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021999121006495
131. Pedro, J.B., Maroñas, J., Paredes, R.: Solving Partial Differential Equations with Neural Networks.
(2019) arXiv:1912.04737 [physics]
132. Peng, W., Zhang, J., Zhou, W., et al.: IDRLnet: A Physics-Informed Neural Network Library. (2021)
arXiv:2107.04320 [cs, math]
133. Pinkus, A.: Approximation theory of the MLP model in neural networks. Acta Numer.
8,
143–195
(1999).
https://doi.org/10.1017/S0962492900002919,
www.cambridge.org/core/
journals/acta-numerica/article/abs/approximation-theory-of-the-mlp-model-in-neural-networks/
18072C558C8410C4F92A82BCC8FC8CF9
134. Pratama, D.A., Bakar, M.A., Man, M., et al.: ANNs-Based Method for Solving Partial Differential
Equations : A Survey. (2021) Preprint https://doi.org/10.20944/preprints202102.0160.v1, https://www.
preprints.org/manuscript/202102.0160/v1
135. Psichogios, D.C., Ungar, L.H.: A hybrid neural network-ﬁrst principles approach to process modeling.
AIChE J. 38(10), 1499–1511 (1992). https://doi.org/10.1002/aic.690381003, https://onlinelibrary.wiley.
com/doi/abs/10.1002/aic.690381003
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 59 of 62
88
136. Quarteroni, A.: Numerical Models for Differential Problems, 2nd edn. Springer Publishing Company,
Incorporated (2013)
137. Rackauckas, C., Ma, Y., Martensen, J., et al.: Universal Differential Equations for Scientiﬁc Machine
Learning. (2021) arXiv:2001.04385 [cs, math, q-bio, stat]
138. Raﬁq, M., Raﬁq, G., Choi, G.S.: DSFA-PINN: Deep Spectral Feature Aggregation Physics Informed
Neural Network. IEEE Access 10, 1 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3153056
139. Raissi, M.: Deep hidden physics models: Deep learning of nonlinear partial differential equations. J.
Mach. Learn. Res. 19(25), 1–24 (2018). http://jmlr.org/papers/v19/18-046.html
140. Raissi, M., Karniadakis, G.E.: Hidden physics models: Machine learning of nonlinear partial differen-
tial equations. J. Comput. Phys. 357, 125–141 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2017.11.039, www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021999117309014
141. Raissi, M., Perdikaris, P., Karniadakis, G.E.: Inferring solutions of differential equations using noisy
multi-ﬁdelity data. J. Comput. Phys. 335, 736–746 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2017.01.060,
www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021999117300761
142. Raissi, M., Perdikaris, P., Karniadakis, G.E.: Machine learning of linear differential equations using
Gaussian processes. J. Comput. Phys. 348, 683–693 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2017.07.050,
www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021999117305582
143. Raissi, M., Perdikaris, P., Karniadakis, G.E.: Physics Informed Deep Learning (Part I): Data-driven
Solutions of Nonlinear Partial Differential Equations. (2017c) arXiv:1711.10561 [cs, math, stat]
144. Raissi, M., Perdikaris, P., Karniadakis, G.E.: Physics Informed Deep Learning (Part II): Data-driven
Discovery of Nonlinear Partial Differential Equations. (2017d) arXiv:1711.10566 [cs, math, stat]
145. Raissi, M., Perdikaris, P., Karniadakis, G.E.: Numerical gaussian processes for time-dependent and
nonlinear partial differential equations. SIAM J. Sci. Comput. 40(1), A172–A198 (2018). https://doi.
org/10.1137/17M1120762
146. Raissi, M., Perdikaris, P., Karniadakis, G.E.: Physics-informed neural networks: A deep learning frame-
work for solving forward and inverse problems involving nonlinear partial differential equations. J.
Comput. Phys. 378, 686–707 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2018.10.045, www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S0021999118307125
147. Raissi, M., Yazdani, A., Karniadakis, G.E.: Hidden ﬂuid mechanics: Learning velocity and pressure ﬁelds
from ﬂow visualizations. Sci. 367(6481), 1026–1030 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaw4741,
www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.aaw4741
148. Ramabathiran, A.A., Ramachandran, P.: SPINN: Sparse, Physics-based, and partially Interpretable
Neural Networks for PDEs. J. Comput. Phys. 445, 110,600 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2021.
110600, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021999121004952
149. Rudin, C., Chen, C., Chen, Z., et al.: Interpretable machine learning: Fundamental principles and 10
grand challenges. Stat. Surveys 16(none), 1–85 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1214/21-SS133, https://
projecteuclid.org/journals/statistics-surveys/volume-16/issue-none/Interpretable-machine-learning-
Fundamental-principles-and-10-grand-challenges/10.1214/21-SS133.full
150. Ryaben’kii, V.S., Tsynkov, S.V.: A Theoretical Introduction to Numerical Analysis. CRC Press, Boca
Raton, FL (2006)
151. Sahli Costabal, F., Yang, Y., Perdikaris, P., et al.: Physics-Informed Neural Networks for Cardiac Acti-
vation Mapping. Front. Phys. 8, 42 (2020). https://doi.org/10.3389/fphy.2020.00042, www.frontiersin.
org/article/10.3389/fphy.2020.00042
152. Scharzenberger, C., Hays, J.: Learning To Estimate Regions Of Attraction Of Autonomous Dynamical
Systems Using Physics-Informed Neural Networks. Tech. rep., (2021) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.
2111.09930, arXiv:2111.09930 [cs] type: article
153. Schiassi, E., Furfaro, R., Leake, C., et al.: Extreme theory of functional connections: A fast physics-
informed neural network method for solving ordinary and partial differential equations. Neurocomputing
457, 334–356 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2021.06.015, www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0925231221009140
154. Schölkopf, B., Locatello, F., Bauer, S., et al.: Toward Causal Representation Learning. Proc. IEEE 109(5),
612–634 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1109/JPROC.2021.3058954
155. Sengupta, S., Basak, S., Saikia, P., et al.: A review of deep learning with special emphasis on architectures,
applications and recent trends. Knowledge-Based Systems 194, 105,596 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.knosys.2020.105596, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S095070512030071X
156. Sergeev, A., Del Balso, M.: Horovod: fast and easy distributed deep learning in TensorFlow. Tech. rep.,
(2018) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1802.05799, arXiv:1802.05799 [cs, stat] type: article
157. Shin, Y., Darbon, J., Karniadakis, G.E.: On the convergence of physics informed neural networks for lin-
ear second-order elliptic and parabolic type PDEs. Commun. Comput. Phys. 28(5), 2042–2074 (2020a).
https://doi.org/10.4208/cicp.OA-2020-0193, arXiv: 2004.01806
123
\n88
Page 60 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
158. Shin, Y., Zhang, Z., Karniadakis, G.E.: Error estimates of residual minimization using neural networks
for linear PDEs. (2020b) arXiv:2010.08019 [cs, math]
159. Shrestha, A., Mahmood, A.: Review of Deep Learning Algorithms and Architectures. IEEE Access 7,
53040–53065 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2912200
160. Sirignano, J., Spiliopoulos, K.: DGM: A deep learning algorithm for solving partial differential
equations. J. Comput. Phys. 375, 1339–1364 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2018.08.029, www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021999118305527
161. Sitzmann, V., Martel, J.N.P., Bergman, A.W., et al.: Implicit Neural Representations with Periodic
Activation Functions (2020). arXiv:2006.09661 [cs, eess]
162. Smith, J.D., Azizzadenesheli, K., Ross, Z.E.: EikoNet: Solving the Eikonal Equation With Deep Neural
Networks. IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens. 59(12), 10685–10696 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1109/
TGRS.2020.3039165
163. Smith,J.D.,Ross,Z.E.,Azizzadenesheli,K.,etal.:HypoSVI:HypocentreinversionwithSteinvariational
inference and physics informed neural networks. Geophys. J. Int. 228(1), 698–710 (2021). https://doi.
org/10.1093/gji/ggab309
164. Stein, M.L.: Large sample properties of simulations using latin hypercube sampling. Technometrics 29,
143–151 (1987)
165. Stiasny J, Misyris GS, Chatzivasileiadis S (2021) Physics-Informed Neural Networks for Non-linear
System Identiﬁcation for Power System Dynamics. In: 2021 IEEE Madrid PowerTech, pp 1–6, https://
doi.org/10.1109/PowerTech46648.2021.9495063
166. Stielow, T., Scheel, S.: Reconstruction of nanoscale particles from single-shot wide-angle
free-electron-laser diffraction patterns with physics-informed neural networks. Phys. Review E
103(5), 053,312 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.103.053312, https://link.aps.org/doi/10.
1103/PhysRevE.103.053312
167. Stiller, P., Bethke, F., Böhme, M., et al.: Large-Scale Neural Solvers for Partial Differential Equations. In:
Nichols J, Verastegui B, Maccabe AB, et al (eds) Driving Scientiﬁc and Engineering Discoveries Through
the Convergence of HPC, Big Data and AI. Springer International Publishing, Cham, Communications
in Computer and Information Science, pp. 20–34, (2020) https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-63393-6_2
168. Sun, L., Gao, H., Pan, S., et al.: Surrogate modeling for ﬂuid ﬂows based on physics-
constrained deep learning without simulation data. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Engrg. 361,
112,732 (2020a). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.2019.112732, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S004578251930622X
169. Sun,S.,Cao,Z.,Zhu,H.,etal.:ASurveyofOptimizationMethodsFromaMachineLearningPerspective.
IEEE Trans. Cybernet. 50(8), 3668–3681 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1109/TCYB.2019.2950779
170. Tartakovsky, A.M., Marrero, C.O., Perdikaris, P., et al.: Physics-Informed Deep Neural Net-
works for Learning Parameters and Constitutive Relationships in Subsurface Flow Problems. Water
Resources Research 56(5), e2019WR026,731 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1029/2019WR026731, https://
onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1029/2019WR026731
171. Thompson, D.B.: Numerical Methods 101 – Convergence of Numerical Models. ASCE, pp. 398–403
(1992), https://cedb.asce.org/CEDBsearch/record.jsp?dockey=0078142
172. Tong, Y., Xiong, S., He, X., et al.: Symplectic neural networks in taylor series form for hamiltonian
systems. J. Comput. Phys. 437, 110,325 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2021.110325, https://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021999121002205
173. Torabi Rad, M., Viardin, A., Schmitz, G.J., et al.: Theory-training deep neural networks for an alloy
solidiﬁcation benchmark problem. Comput. Mater. Sci. 180, 109,687 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
commatsci.2020.109687, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0927025620301786
174. Viana, F.A.C., Nascimento, R.G., Dourado, A., et al.: Estimating model inadequacy in ordi-
nary differential equations with physics-informed neural networks. Comput. Structures 245,
106,458 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compstruc.2020.106458, https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0045794920302613
175. Waheed, U.b., Haghighat, E., Alkhalifah, T., et al.: PINNeik: Eikonal solution using physics-informed
neural networks. Comput. Geosci. 155, 104,833 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cageo.2021.104833,
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S009830042100131X
176. Wang, L., Yan, Z.: Data-driven rogue waves and parameter discovery in the defocusing non-
linear Schrödinger equation with a potential using the PINN deep learning. Phys. Lett. A
404, 127,408 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physleta.2021.127408, https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0375960121002723
177. Wang, N., Chang, H., Zhang, D.: Theory-guided auto-encoder for surrogate construction and inverse
modeling. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Engrg. 385, 114,037 (2021a). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.
2021.114037, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045782521003686
123
\nJournal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
Page 61 of 62
88
178. Wang, S., Perdikaris, P.: Deep learning of free boundary and Stefan problems. J. Comput. Phys. 428,
109,914 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2020.109914, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0021999120306884
179. Wang, S., Teng, Y., Perdikaris, P.: Understanding and Mitigating Gradient Flow Pathologies in Physics-
Informed Neural Networks. SIAM J. Sci. Comput. 43(5), A3055–A3081 (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1137/20M1318043, https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/20M1318043
180. Wang, S., Sankaran, S., Perdikaris, P.: Respecting causality is all you need for training physics-informed
neural networks. (2022a) arXiv:2203.07404 [nlin, physics:physics, stat]
181. Wang, S., Yu, X., Perdikaris, P.: When and why PINNs fail to train: A neural tangent kernel perspec-
tive. J. Comput. Phys. 449, 110,768 (2022b). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2021.110768, https://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S002199912100663X
182. Wen, G., Li, Z., Azizzadenesheli, K., et al.: U-FNO–An enhanced Fourier neural operator-based deep-
learning model for multiphase ﬂow. Adv. Water Resources 163, 104,180 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.advwatres.2022.104180, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0309170822000562
183. Wiecha, P.R., Arbouet, A., Arbouet, A., et al.: Deep learning in nano-photonics: inverse design
and beyond. Photonics Research 9(5), B182–B200 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1364/PRJ.415960, www.
osapublishing.org/prj/abstract.cfm?uri=prj-9-5-B182
184. Wong, J.C., Gupta, A., Ong, Y.S.: Can Transfer Neuroevolution Tractably Solve Your Differential Equa-
tions? IEEE Comput. Intell. Mag. 16(2), 14–30 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1109/MCI.2021.3061854
185. Wong, J.C., Ooi, C., Gupta, A., et al.: Learning in Sinusoidal Spaces with Physics-Informed Neural
Networks. (2022) arXiv:2109.09338 [physics]
186. Xiao, H., Wu, J.L., Laizet, S., et al.: Flows over periodic hills of parameterized geome-
tries: A dataset for data-driven turbulence modeling from direct simulations. Comput. Fluids
200,104,431(2020).https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compﬂuid.2020.104431,https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0045793020300074
187. Xu, K., Darve, E.: ADCME: Learning Spatially-varying Physical Fields using Deep Neural Networks.
(2020) arXiv:2011.11955 [cs, math]
188. Xu, K., Darve, E.: Solving inverse problems in stochastic models using deep neural networks and
adversarial training. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Engrg. 384, 113,976 (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.cma.2021.113976, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045782521003078
189. Yang, L., Zhang, D., Karniadakis, G.E.: Physics-informed generative adversarial networks for stochas-
tic differential equations. SIAM J. Sci. Comput. 42(1), A292–A317 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1137/
18M1225409
190. Yang, L., Meng, X., Karniadakis, G.E.: B-PINNs: Bayesian physics-informed neural networks for for-
ward and inverse PDE problems with noisy data. J. Comput. Phys. 425, 109,913 (2021). https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.jcp.2020.109913, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021999120306872
191. Yang, Y., Perdikaris, P.: Adversarial uncertainty quantiﬁcation in physics-informed neural networks.
J. Comput. Phys. 394, 136–152 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2019.05.027, www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S0021999119303584
192. Yarotsky, D.: Error bounds for approximations with deep relu networks. Neural Netw. 94, 103–
114 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neunet.2017.07.002, www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0893608017301545
193. Yuan, L., Ni, Y.Q., Deng, X.Y., et al.: A-PINN: Auxiliary physics informed neural net-
works for forward and inverse problems of nonlinear integro-differential equations. J. Comput.
Phys. 462, 111,260 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2022.111260,https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0021999122003229
194. Yucesan, Y.A., Viana, F.A.C.: Hybrid physics-informed neural networks for main bearing fatigue progno-
sis with visual grease inspection. Comput. Ind. 125:103,386 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.
2020.103386, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361520306205
195. Zhang, D., Lu, L., Guo, L., et al.: Quantifying total uncertainty in physics-informed neural networks for
solving forward and inverse stochastic problems. J. Comput. Phys. 397, 108,850 (2019). https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.jcp.2019.07.048, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021999119305340
196. Zhang, D., Guo, L., Karniadakis, G.E.: Learning in modal space: Solving time-dependent stochastic
pdes using physics-informed neural networks. SIAM J. Sci. Comput. 42(2), A639–A665 (2020). https://
doi.org/10.1137/19M1260141
197. Zhang, R., Liu, Y., Sun, H.: Physics-informed multi-LSTM networks for metamodeling of nonlinear
structures. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Engrg. 369, 113,226 (2020b). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.
2020.113226, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045782520304114
123
\n88
Page 62 of 62
Journal of Scientiﬁc Computing (2022) 92 :88
198. Zhi-Qin, Xu, J., et al.: Frequency principle: Fourier analysis sheds light on deep neural networks.
Commun. Comput. Phys. 28(5), 1746–1767 (2020). https://doi.org/10.4208/cicp.OA-2020-0085, http://
global-sci.org/intro/article_detail/cicp/18395.html
199. Zhu, Q., Liu, Z., Yan, J.: Machine learning for metal additive manufacturing: predicting temperature
and melt pool ﬂuid dynamics using physics-informed neural networks. Comput. Mech. 67(2), 619–635
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00466-020-01952-9
200. Zhu, Y., Zabaras, N., Koutsourelakis, P.S., et al.: Physics-constrained deep learning for high-dimensional
surrogate modeling and uncertainty quantiﬁcation without labeled data. J. Comput. Phys. 394,
56–81 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2019.05.024, www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0021999119303559
201. Zubov, K., McCarthy, Z., Ma, Y., et al.: NeuralPDE: Automating Physics-Informed Neural Networks
(PINNs) with Error Approximations. (2021a) arXiv:2107.09443 [cs]
202. Zubov, K., McCarthy, Z., Ma, Y., et al.: NeuralPDE: Automating Physics-Informed Neural Networks
(PINNs) with Error Approximations. (2021b) arXiv:2107.09443 [cs]
Publisher’s Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and
institutional afﬁliations.
Authors and Aﬃliations
Salvatore Cuomo1 · Vincenzo Schiano Di Cola2 · Fabio Giampaolo1 ·
Gianluigi Rozza3 · Maziar Raissi4 · Francesco Piccialli1
Salvatore Cuomo
salvatore.cuomo@unina.it
Vincenzo Schiano Di Cola
vincenzo.schianodicola@unina.it
Fabio Giampaolo
fabio.giampaolo@unina.it
Gianluigi Rozza
grozza@sissa.it
Maziar Raissi
mara4513@colorado.edu
1
Department of Mathematics and Applications “Renato Caccioppoli”, University of Naples Federico
II, Napoli 80126, Italy
2
Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology, University of Naples Federico
II, Via Claudio, Napoli 80125, Italy
3
SISSA, International School for Advanced Studies, Mathematics Area, mathLab, via Bonomea 265,
Trieste 34136, Italy
4
Department of Applied Mathematics, University of Colorado Boulder, Boulder, CO 80309, USA
123
