energies
Review
Thermal Assessment of Power Cables and Impacts on
Cable Current Rating: An Overview
Diana Enescu 1,*
, Pietro Colella 2
and Angela Russo 2
1
Department of Electronics, Telecommunications and Energy, University Valahia of Targoviste,
130004 Targoviste, Romania
2
Dipartimento Energia “Galileo Ferraris”, Politecnico di Torino, 10129 Torino, Italy;
pietro.colella@polito.it (P.C.); angela.russo@polito.it (A.R.)
*
Correspondence: diana.enescu@valahia.ro
Received: 14 August 2020; Accepted: 10 October 2020; Published: 13 October 2020


Abstract: The conceptual assessment of the rating conditions of power cables was addressed over
one century ago, with theories based on the physical and heat transfer properties of the power cable
installed in a given medium. During the years, the evolution of the computational methods and
technologies has made more powerful means for executing the calculations available. More detailed
conﬁgurations have been analysed, also moving from the steady-state to dynamic rating assessment.
The research is in progress, with recent advances obtained on both advanced models, extensive
calculations from 2D and 3D ﬁnite element methods, simpliﬁed approaches aimed at reducing
the computational burden, and dedicated solutions for speciﬁc types of cables and applications.
This paper provides a general overview that links the fundamental concepts of heat transfer for the
calculation of cable rating to the advanced solutions that have emerged in the last years.
Keywords: cable rating; electric cables; heat transfer; thermal model; ﬁnite diﬀerence method; ﬁnite
element method; probabilistic models; harmonic distortion
1. Introduction
Thermal phenomena are at the basis of power cable current rating. The temperature reached
during the time in diﬀerent points of the cable, especially at the interface between conductor and
insulation, determines the cable lifetime, together with other ageing factors due to the characteristics
of the materials [1,2]. Power cable design for a given application has to be carried out accurately,
because any issues that appear in the cable during its operation could lead to failures. The occurrence
of failures requires expensive maintenance, with the creation of joints (or junctions) that break the
physical cable continuity and make the cable more vulnerable during successive operation [3].
When a cable is installed, the exact evolution in time of the current that the cable will carry,
as well as the characteristics of the external environment, cannot be known in advance. For this purpose,
the deﬁnition of the current rating of the cable has to come from general hypotheses on the cable
operation for a given cable layout and type of installation. The current rating (also denoted as ampacity)
refers to the maximum current at which the cable can operate without exceeding the temperature limits
for the insulation material. Thereby, the determination of the current rating requires formulating a
heat transfer problem, in which the thermal properties of the materials, the heat sources inside and
outside the cable, and the mechanisms of heat dissipation are modelled and evaluated [4].
The time-variable nature of the heat sources, together with the possible changes occurring
in the outside environment during the time, make the determination of the current rating a
time-dependent problem. This problem is also indicated as dynamic cable rating, and consists of the
determination of the maximum permissible current loading of the cable during the time. Dynamic cable
Energies 2020, 13, 5319; doi:10.3390/en13205319
www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
2 of 38
rating involves an iterative method for continuous calculation of the conductor temperature by
considering the history of the current loading, alongside with the parameters and thermal conditions
of the cable and the environment [5]. The history can be considered by storing data for diﬀerent
periods (e.g., hourly data stored at six hours, one day, and one day plus one hour in [6]). With today’s
real-time monitoring systems, gathering data during the cable operation is easier than in the past [7].
Distributed temperature sensing enables data gathering in 10 to 30 min [8] at diﬀerent locations along
the cable.
Nevertheless, extended monitoring of the temperatures along cable lines is still a very
expensive task, not supported also by the fact that failures could appear at any location. For this reason,
monitoring is typically restricted to selected points (including cable junctions). The use of appropriate
thermal models to represent the overall picture of the temperatures at diﬀerent points of the cable lines,
as well as in the soil and on the external surface, is then fully justiﬁed.
Investigating the thermal behaviour of electric cables requires cross-competences from many
domains, such as thermal sciences and electrical engineering. Well-structured research lines are
in progress, dealing with diﬀerent objectives.
For cable rating purposes, structured results are
presented in books such as [9,10]. The speciﬁc aspects related to increasing the cable rating in diﬀerent
conditions are addressed in [11]. Life cycle management of power cables is reviewed in [12].
Most of the research work carried out on power cables refers to underground cables, and in
some cases to overhead cable lines, while submarine transmission cables have been designed for
dedicated applications. More recently, various applications to power cables located in the water
have emerged, especially for sizing cables connecting oﬀshore wind farms [13,14]. Concerning the
thermal properties of the soil (without addressing the presence of power cables), recent reviews are
presented in [15,16]. Furthermore, for future time horizons, the evolution of the heat sources is also
uncertain. Advanced thermal and electrical models are needed to enable better exploitation of the
power cables during installation, operation, and emergency situations. These models have to be
exploited to execute several simulations based on diﬀerent operational scenarios.
However, to the authors’ knowledge, there is no recent review that addresses at the same time
multiple aspects of soil modelling, thermal assessment models, current rating calculations, advanced
eﬀects of the electrical quantities on the cable rating, and advanced applications such as forecasting
of the current rating, providing both a synthetic view on the concepts and trends that emerge from
recent publications.
The contribution of this paper is to review the thermal models of underground cables by indicating
the evolutions occurred, starting from basic models with general hypotheses, towards the adoption of
more detailed speciﬁcations to address practical cases. In particular, historical aspects are summarized,
both concerning the mathematical thermal models and the methods to simulate the heat transfer in
the cables, as well as in the external medium. Various contributions presented in recent years are
highlighted. Analytic expressions are presented for simple cable installation types. At the same time,
indications on articles that address more complex cases with metal components, ducts, conduits,
oil cooling, back-ﬁll, and more elements, are provided by pointing to speciﬁc references. The literature
on soil properties (based on thermal sciences) is addressed with the one leading to formulations of
cable ratings in diﬀerent conditions (which also exploits electrical engineering aspects), to provide a
wider view on the researches in progress in the respective domains.
The next sections of this paper are organized as follows. Section 2 recalls the relevant heat transfer
concepts. Section 3 illustrates the thermal models of power cables, describes the electrothermal analogy
for constructing electrical equivalent models and deals with analytic and numerical methods for the
thermal analysis of power cables. Section 4 addresses the calculation of the cable rating, as well as
the eﬀects of harmonic distortion on cable ratings and speciﬁc aspects linked to probabilistic analysis.
The last section contains the concluding remarks.
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
3 of 38
2. Heat Transfer Concepts for Thermal Analysis of Power Cables
This section addresses the heat transfer concepts used in the formulation of the thermal
analysis of the power cables. Starting from the basic concepts, the illustration presented contains
progressive indications, up to dealing with advanced and detailed aspects that have emerged from
recent literature contributions.
The current ﬂowing in a power cable generates heat, which is dissipated through the metallic
layers of the cable and its insulation, towards the surrounding environment. Heat is an energy form
transferred from one system to another in the presence of a temperature gradient. There are three heat
transfer mechanisms involved in this process: conduction, convection, and radiation. The conduction
phenomenon occurs through the metallic layers of the cable and its insulation if the cable is buried
or is in the air or the water. Convection and radiation occur from the cable surface to the external
environment. In the case of convection, the nature of the heat ﬂow classiﬁes this phenomenon into
natural convection or forced convection. Natural convection arises when the ﬂow is induced by the
buoyancy forces, due to the density diﬀerences provoked by the temperature gradients in the air.
Forced convection takes place due to the external means such as a with a pump, fan, or the wind.
The interactions with the ambient environment makes the heat transfer phenomena more complex for
cables installed in free air or water, with respect to the cables installed underground. The radiation
refers to electromagnetic waves or photons. Radiation does not necessitate a medium, and its intensity
strongly depends on temperature [17]. The heat is transferred by convection and radiation from the
cable surface to its surroundings only for the power cables installed in air. The sun is considered an
additional energy source if the power cable in the air is exposed to solar radiation [10].
2.1. Energy Conservation and the Energy Balance Equation
The energy conservation law is fundamental in the heat transfer assessment of a power cable. The
appropriate equation of this law is:
.
Qin +
.
Qgen = ∆
.
Qstor +
.
Qout,
(1)
where:
.
Qin heat ﬂow rate that enters in the power cable, and which is generated by the solar radiation for an
insulated power cable installed in air, or by the neighbouring cables of a speciﬁc power cable buried in
the soil;
.
Qgen heat ﬂow rate generated inside a speciﬁc power cable, by Joule, dielectric and ferromagnetic losses;
∆
.
Qstor change of heat ﬂow rate stored inside the power cable; and,
.
Qout heat ﬂow rate dissipated by heat transfer mechanisms (or heat losses); in the case of the
underground installations, the cable system also incorporates the surrounding soil.
The terms
.
Qin and
.
Qout, depending on surface phenomena, are proportional to the surface area.
The terms
.
Qgen and ∆
.
Qst, which depend on volumetric phenomena, are proportional to the volume.
The energy storage is associated with a rise ∆
.
Qst > 0 or a reduction ∆
.
Qst < 0 in the cable energy.
In steady-state conditions, there is no change in energy storage, so that ∆
.
Qst = 0.
For an underground cable located in the soil, the conduction phenomenon occurs by all cable layers
and from the cable to the soil. The cable length is much bigger than its diameter, the end eﬀects are
neglected, and for this reason, the general heat conduction equation is written in two-dimensions
only [10]. In the basic model, the cable is assumed to be located in an inﬁnite medium with uniform
initial temperature. In this case, the heat conduction equation is written by taking into account the
transient conditions that express the variation of the temperature in time:
∂
∂x
 
1
ρ·∂T
∂x
!
+
∂
∂y
 
1
ρ·∂T
∂y
!
+
.qgen = ζ·cp·∂T
∂τ ,
(2)
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
4 of 38
where T is the absolute temperature, ∂T
∂x and ∂T
∂y are the temperature gradients in x and y directions, ρ
is the thermal resistivity, which is the inverse of the thermal conductivity k =
1
ρ typically used in the
heat transfer domain,
.qgen is the rate of heat generated per unit volume, cp is the speciﬁc heat capacity,
ζ is the density, and τ is time.
This equation is a non-homogeneous partial diﬀerential equation. Its explicit solution exists only
for speciﬁc geometries and boundary conditions. The complex geometry of insulated cables makes it
impossible to obtain a closed-form solution. Generally, the problem is solved by numerical approaches,
such as thermal-electrical analogy or Finite Element Method (FEM) [17].
In a homogeneous environment, the thermal resistivity ρ is constant, thereby the heat conduction
equation is:
∂
∂x
 
∂T
∂x
!
+
∂
∂y
 
∂T
∂y
!
+ ρ·
.qgen =
1
a ·∂T
∂τ ,
(3)
where the thermal diﬀusivity a =
1
d·ρ·cp =
1
ρ·Cv represents how fast heat is transmitted by a material,
and Cv is the volumetric heat capacity.
If cylindrical symmetry is assumed, the geometric variable considered is the radius r measured
from the centre of the cable, and the heat conduction equation becomes:
∂2T
∂r2 + 1
r ·∂T
∂r + ρ·
.qgen = 1
a·∂T
∂τ .
(4)
The solution of this equation is written in the form [9,10]:
T(τ) = −
.qgen·ρ
4π
Z ∞
τ
1
ue −
r2
4·a·u du = −
.qgen·ρ
4π
·
"
−Ei
 
−r2
4·a·τ
!#
,
(5)
where, by indicating x =
r2
4·a·τ, the exponential integral −Ei(−x) is deﬁned as:
−Ei(−x) =
Z ∞
x
e−w
w dw.
(6)
For underground cables, the main aspects that make the basic models not applicable depend on
various eﬀects, among which:
(a)
the non-inﬁnite dimension of the soil;
(b)
the eﬀect of the ambient on the soil properties;
(c)
the non-homogeneous soil;
(d)
the ﬁnite cable length;
(e)
the lack of cylindrical symmetry.
Speciﬁc indications on the above points are provided below.
2.2. Non-Inﬁnite Dimension of the Soil
In Equations (4) and (5), the soil is considered homogeneous and inﬁnite. In this case, with a
single cable, the thermal ﬁeld is composed of concentric lines. In practice, the cables are buried at
a given depth, and the shape of the thermal ﬁeld depends on the presence of the ground surface.
In turn, the ground surface can be considered at the same temperature or diﬀerent temperatures.
The traditional solution considers Kennelly’s hypothesis of having an isothermal interface between
soil and air [18], further discussed in [19,20]. Kennelly’s hypothesis leads to the deﬁnition of the
image method, which is useful to calculate the temperature growth at any point of the soil. The cable
system is considered an inﬁnitely long cylindrical heat source buried in a uniform medium, and it is
not possible to consider the convective boundary conditions at the soil surface [9,21]. The heat source
+
.ql (with thermal ﬂux
.ql in W/m) is buried at a given depth in uniform soil. Heat is transferred from
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
5 of 38
the heat source to all points having lower temperature by conduction. If the heat source is enclosed
in a duct or pipe containing air, then the heat is also transferred by convection. The soil surface is
considered as the symmetry axis. The heat sink, emitting the heat −
.ql, is the reﬂected image of the
heat source. The heat sink has the same distance L and magnitude above the soil surface as the heat
source has below the soil surface. In the case of multiple cables, or cables with multiple cores in which
the electric current ﬂows, the superposition eﬀect is applied [10].
The heat conduction equation due to the heat sink is:
dT
dr −
ρ·
.ql
2·π·r = 0 ⇒dT sin k = ρ·
.ql
2·π ·dr
r
⇒T sin k =
Z r′
∞
ρ·
.ql
2·π ·dr
r .
(7)
The heat conduction equation due to the heat source is:
dT
dr +
ρ·
.ql
2·π·r = 0 ⇒dTsource = −ρ·
.ql
2·π ·dr
r
⇒T source = −
Z r′′
∞
ρ·
.ql
2·π ·dr
r .
(8)
The temperature increase at any point in the soil (in Figure 1, the point indicated is N) is the sum
of two temperature increments (i.e., the temperature increment due to the heat source in the ground,
and the temperature increment due to its ﬁctive image above the soil):
∆TN = −
Z r′′
∞
ρ·
.ql
2·π ·dr
r
+
Z r′
∞
ρ·
.ql
2·π ·dr
r
= ρ·
.ql
2·π ln r′
r′′ ⇒
.ql =
∆TN
ρ
2π· ln r′
r′′
.
(9)
Figure 1. Sketch of the image method constructed with Kennelly’s hypothesis.
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
6 of 38
Consider the hypothesis that the outside diameter D of the cable is much lower than the distance
L from the surface of the ground to the cable centre. Therefore, the temperature growth at the outside
cable surface is [10]:
Tline source(τ)  ρ·
.ql
4·π ·
"
−Ei
 
−D2
16·a·τ
!
+ Ei
 
−L2
a·τ
!#
.
(10)
The eﬀect of a non-isothermal ground surface is considered in [21] by adding a ﬁctitious layer that
moves the isothermal surface in the direction opposite to the cable location, as an application of the
additional wall method shown in [22]. The adaptation proposed in the paper is based on applying the
Fourier transform for converting the heat transfer problem from two dimensions to one dimension.
In the transformed Fourier domain, the heat transfer coeﬃcient is no longer dependent on soil thermal
resistivity, installation depth, and cable dimensions; it depends only on the physical properties of the
air and the heat that is dissipated by the cable. To model the non-isothermal soil surface, [21] proposed
an accurate method in which the heat transfer coeﬃcient may be computed in the Fourier domain.
The application of this procedure was possible because, after the transformation in the Fourier domain,
the heat transfer coeﬃcient depends only on the air physical properties and the heat dissipated by
the cable, and does not depend on cable dimensions, cable depth, and soil thermal resistivity ρ.
This method has been shown to be compatible with standardized methods (IEC and IEEE).
The equation that describes the conversion of the two-dimensional heat transfer problem into a
one-dimensional problem is:
FT(x, y)	 = T(s, y),
(11)
where x and y, respectively, are the horizontal and vertical coordinates, F{.} denotes the Fourier
transformation, and s is the variable of the transformed Fourier domain.
Furthermore, the cable (the heat source) is deﬁned as a Dirac function f(x) that is applied at a
depth L with respect to the soil surface, in which
.qgen only appears at the position of the directly
buried cable, and
.ql = 0 anywhere else. In this case, the expression FT(x, y)	 = 1 points out
that a buried cable in the space domain is expressed in the Fourier domain by a straight line with
.ql = constant (Figure 2). In the spatial domain, the soil temperature depends on the coordinate x,
with the maximum temperature Ts at x = 0 (i.e., above the cable), progressively reduced when the
coordinate x increases. In the Fourier domain, the cable is considered a constant line source, and the
soil surface temperature Ts is constant. This temperature is iteratively calculated to verify the heat
equation at the soil surface:
Ts = T∞+
.ql
h
,
(12)
where h is the heat transfer coeﬃcient in the Fourier domain.
The heat conduction equation (Laplace equation in steady-state, without
.qgen) after the Fourier
transformation is:
d2
dy2 Ts(s, y) = 0.
(13)
This equation satisﬁes the following boundary conditions:
at y = L ⇒−k·dTs(s, y)
dy
|         {z         }
.qconductive
= h·Ts(s, y)
|    {z    }
.qconvective
,
(14)
at y = 0 ⇒−k·dTs(s, y)
dy
=
.ql.
(15)
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
7 of 38
Figure 2. Adaptation of the image method for a non-isothermal ground surface.
The solution of Equation (13) satisfying the boundary conditions (14) and (15) is:
T(s, y) = −
.ql·ρ·y +
.ql
h
·

1 + ρ·L·h

.
(16)
The non-isothermal soil surface is modelled by introducing a ﬁctitious layer with thickness d.
The image of the cable line is then found at a distance L′ = L + d (Figure 2).
In this case, the heat conduction equation after the Fourier transform is Equation (13).
Consider, the same line source. The boundary conditions are Equation (15) and the following equation:
at y = L′ ⇒−k·dTs(s, y)
dy
= −
.ql.
(17)
The temperature gradient is constant at y = L′:
T(s, y) = 0 .
(18)
The solution of the equation with these boundary conditions is:
T(s, y) = −
.ql·ρ·y +
.ql·ρ·L′.
(19)
By comparing Equation (16) with Equation (19), the thickness of the ﬁctitious layer becomes:
d =
1
ρ·h
.
(20)
Figure 3 shows the scenario of when the ﬁctitious layer is added. The mirror line is coincident
with the horizontal isothermal line. In addition, diﬀerent temperatures are found at the soil surface,
which is crossed by other isothermal lines.
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
8 of 38
Figure 3. Representation with the equivalent image method for non-isothermal soil surface.
2.3. The Eﬀect of the Ambient on the Soil Properties
Underground cables are buried at a given depth in the soil. The cable temperature can be aﬀected
by the phenomena occurring in the ambient, depending on the depth and on the presence of layers
that reduce the eﬀect of the external ambient, such as pavements or conduits. When the latter elements
are absent, the variation of the temperature on the soil surface aﬀects the internal part of the soil and
the cable temperature. The eﬀects can be seen on diﬀerent time horizons.
In uniform soils, the heat ﬂow is conductive. However, as indicated in [23,24], this assumption
is not generally valid if there is a strong moisture gradient. The moisture gradient determines an
isothermal vapour ﬂux. In this case, part of the total soil evaporation results from subsurface evaporation
that occurs under the soil surface. This evaporation aﬀects the heat ﬂux and the temperature proﬁle.
The total soil heat ﬂux
.qtot is given by the following equation:
.qtot =
.qlatp +
.qds,
(21)
where the isothermal latent heat ﬂux
.qlatp depends on the presence of a moisture gradient, and represents
the latent heat carried from evaporating subsurface layers by the isothermal vapour ﬂux [24], while
.qds
is the conductive soil heat ﬂux, which incorporates only the thermal latent heat ﬂux, and considering
the soil depth z is given by:
.qds = −kdT
dz .
(22)
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
9 of 38
During daytime, when a drying soil is heated, the thermal ﬂux
.qds is positive, while the thermal
ﬂux
.qlatp is negative, and reduces the sum
.qtot at the soil surface. The variation of
.qds (z, τ) with the
soil depth, depends on both temperature changes and the subsurface phase change (evaporation
or condensation at the soil depth). The variation of
.qds (z, τ) leads to changes in the sensible and
latent heats, to satisfy the energy conservation law:
Cv·∂T
∂τ = −
∂
.qds
∂z
+
.qgen(z, τ),
(23)
where
.qgen is the rate of heat generated per unit volume for the local heat sink or source (e.g., water
phase changes) in
h W
m3
i
.
Neglecting
.qgen and the spatial variations in k, Equations (22) and (23) give the uncoupled heat
diﬀusion equation:
∂2T
∂z2 = 1
a·∂T
∂τ .
(24)
In cylindrical coordinates, the uncoupled heat diﬀusion equation becomes:
∂2T
∂r2 + 1
r ·∂T
∂r = 1
a·∂T
∂τ .
(25)
If heat and vapour ﬂows are strongly coupled in the soil, the total soil heat ﬂux is:
.qtot =
.qlatp +
.qc +
.qvT
|     {z     }
.qds = −dT
dz
= ,
(26)
where
.qc is the conductive heat ﬂux, and
.qvT is the thermal latent heat ﬂux (both thermal ﬂuxes are
proportional to −dT
dz and can be combined as
.qds) [24]. The energy conservation law in this case becomes
the coupled equation [25]:
Cv·∂T
∂τ = −
∂
.qtot
∂z .
(27)
The solution of the coupled equation needs numerical methods to be addressed.
In fact,
in general cases, many aspects cannot be solved analytically. With numerical methods, the soil is
partitioned into adjacent volumes separated by boundaries. In this context, it is possible to model
some particular cases with non-uniform soils, irregular boundary conditions, multi-dimensional ﬂows,
and non-linear equations.
Analyticalsolutionsarepossibleunderappropriatesimplifications. Inparticular, thesesimplifications
refer to considering uniform soil (or knowing the analytic representation of the variation of the soil
thermal properties with depth) and assuming that the thermal properties of the soil do not change with
the temperature. Further requirements to set up analytical solutions include the analytic representation
of the boundary conditions and the initial conditions. Under these simpliﬁcations, it is possible to ﬁnd
the analytical solutions of two types of variation in time [24]:
(a)
periodic variations, determined with the Fourier transform; and
(b)
non-periodic variations, determined with the Laplace transform.
For periodic variations, starting from a time series with N values (where N is an even number), it is
possible to calculate a number of harmonics not higher than H = N/2. The soil surface temperature is
then expressed as:
Ts(τ) = Ts +
H
X
h = 1
Ah· sin(h·ω1·τ + ϕh),
(28)
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
10 of 38
where ω1 =
2·π
p is the fundamental angular frequency, calculated by considering a period of 24 h
when the daily wave is considered, or a period of 12 months for the annual wave; Ts is the mean
temperature at the soil surface; Ah is the amplitude of the h-th harmonic; and ϕh is the phase angle of
the h-th harmonic.
The results of the Fourier analysis are rigorously valid when the wave is repeated without changes
in successive time intervals, namely, each day for the daily wave, or each year for the annual wave.
In addition, if the soil thermal properties do not vary with the depth, and the temperatures at all depths
are assumed to vary around the same Ts, the depth penetration of soil surface temperature T(z, τ) is
the sum of the penetrations of each harmonic [26]:
T(z, τ) = Ts +
H
X
h = 1
Ah·e−z·
√
h
D1 · sin

h·ω1·τ + ϕh −z·
√
h
D1

,
(29)
where D1 =
q
2a
ω1 is the damping depth of the fundamental (h = 1).
More generally, changes in Ts with the soil depth can be addressed by studying the evolution of
Ts,z for diﬀerent depths z, separately with respect to the sinusoidal terms.
From Equation (29), the conductive soil heat ﬂux becomes:
.qds =
H
X
h = 1
Ah·(k·Cv·h·ω1)·e
−z
Dh · sin

h·ω1·τ + ϕh −z·Dh
−1 + π
4

,
(30)
where Dh =
D1
√
h.
For non-periodic variations, the Laplace transform of T(z, τ) is a function of z and the Laplace
parameter s only [27]:
L
T(z, τ) =
Z ∞
0
T(z, τ)·e−s·τdτ.
(31)
The Laplace transform of Equations (24) and (25) is the ordinary diﬀerential equation [27]:
a·d2L 
 T(z, τ) 
dz2
−s·L 
 T(z, τ)  + T(z, 0) = 0.
(32)
Considering the diﬀerence T′(z, τ) between T(z, τ) and an initial isothermal value of the soil,
the boundary condition is expressed as:
T′(z, 0) = 0,
(33)
and for a semi-inﬁnite soil a solution to Equation (31) is:
L 
 T′(z, τ)  = B·e−z·( s
a )
1
2 ,
(34)
where B is a constant, which is a function of s and depends on the boundary conditions used.
2.4. Non-Homogeneous Soil
A detailed analysis of the soil thermal properties is needed for the design and installation of
underground cables and pipelines, to avoid premature damages. The main thermal property to assess
the soil is its thermal resistivity. The main aspects that aﬀect the thermal resistivity are the soil type,
the geometrical layout of the soil components, and the moisture content. The composition of the soil
includes diﬀerent particles, which form aggregates of sand, silt, colloids, and pore spaces. In addition,
water may be present in the soil into diﬀerent extents [19].
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
11 of 38
The soil thermal resistivity under loading conditions is found in the range of 0.5 to 1.2 m·K/W [28].
This value could become higher because of the heat dissipated from the underground cables. The heat
dissipation phenomenon provokes the soil instability, leading to thermal damage of the cable [29].
The soil thermal resistivity is aﬀected by the soil temperature, soil porosity, and water-vapour transport.
The corresponding parameters have to be modelled, to avoid errors in the temperature distribution
compared with real conditions [30].
The standard IEC 60287 [31] indicates how the eﬀective thermal resistivity and thermal resistance
of the soil can be calculated. The ability of the soil to keep its thermal resistivity constant in the presence
of a heat source is named thermal stability of the soil [32]. The soil moisture content has a signiﬁcant eﬀect
on buried cables capacity and soil thermal resistivity. The major concern is that the heat transfer from
the cable into the soil leads to a considerable moisture migration far from the buried cable in the case
of unfavourable conditions. Furthermore, around the cable, a dry zone characterized by uniform high
thermal resistivity could form. This phenomenon occurs because air, considered as a weak conductor,
divides the solid particles of the soil. If the soil moisture content increases, the soil thermal resistivity
decreases because water is a good conductor. In the dry zone, the thermal resistivity in the dry state is
considered. The wet zone is characterized by a thermal resistivity in the saturated state [33]. As such,
the dry soil has a thermal resistivity higher than the wet soil. If in the beginning, the soil thermal
resistivity decreases quickly as the moisture content is raised after a while, the decrease rate comes to
be lower [34].
Gouda et al. [35] speciﬁed that in the presence of the dry zone, the capacity of the buried cable is
decreased by applying a derating factor that depends on the type of soil. Outside the dry zone, the soil
thermal resistivity is also uniform but corresponds to the soil moisture content [9]. The dry zone
provokes an increment of temperature in the cable sheath. This phenomenon leads to a deterioration
of the cable insulation and an eventual formation of hot spots in the cable [36]. A practical assumption
that can be considered for practical purposes is that the dry zone does not modify the proﬁle of
the isotherms compared with their proﬁle when the soil was moist. Only the numerical values of
some isotherms are changed [10]. When the temperature diﬀerence between the external surface
of the cable and the ambient temperature exceeds a critical limit (which depends on temperature,
type of soil, and moisture content), the drying of the soil forms a zone in which the thermal resistivity
increases. The isotherm corresponding to the critical limit gives the boundary of the dry zone. In the
dry zone, the uniform (high) thermal resistivity is assumed. Outside the dry zone, a uniform thermal
resistivity is also considered. The only changes from the uniform conditions of the soil depend on the
non-uniformity is caused by drying. The assumption considered is no longer valid in the presence
of backﬁlls with diﬀerent characteristics from the uniform soil around the cable. The probability of
the soil drying out increases when the direction of the cable is crossed by another heat source [10].
The moisture migration induced by thermal gradient changes the thermal environment and needs
appropriate modelling of the temperature response of the cable [37].
Donazzi et al. [38] speciﬁed that some backﬁll materials such as sand, cement, silt, as well as water,
can be used to improve the thermal conditions of the cables. For example, the dry zone phenomenon in
the backﬁll, initiated at various temperatures and velocities, depends on the soil type and the quantity of
mud [35]. Donazzi et al. [38] also highlighted the signiﬁcance of the critical water content, supposing that
this is independent of the environment temperature in practice (when the soil temperatures around
buried cables are less than 80 ◦C). Groeneveld et al. [39] experimentally demonstrated the eﬀect of
temperature on the critical water content in the soil and speciﬁed that a higher temperature reduces
the capacity of water-keeping of soil. The eﬀect of ambient temperature and ambient saturation on the
temperature of the cable conductor is addressed in [40] and [30]. Moreover, the critical temperature for
the formation of the dry zone, and the ratio of the dry to wet thermal resistivity, depending on the
soil components but not on the loading on the cable. An essential factor to obtain the time required
for the dry zone formation is the heat ﬂux [41]. Both the critical temperature and the ratio of the dry
to wet thermal resistivity do not depend on the heat ﬂux transferred from the buried cables to the
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
12 of 38
soil [36]. The heat ﬂux at the cable surface is useful to obtain the time required for soil to get [41].
Some mathematical models have been developed, assessing the dry zone phenomenon around the
buried cable [42–47].
The hot spots formed in the buried cable can be mitigated by using some solutions such as:
−
the addition of a corrective backﬁll with low thermal resistivity;
−
the heat sources around the buried cables must be insulated;
−
the forced convection for the ﬂuid around the buried cable;
−
an insulating ﬂuid for the inner cooling of the cable;
−
installing in the hot spot zone a forced cooling system [48].
One of the most used solutions to avoid soil drying around the cable is based on water cooling [48,49].
The most adopted practice is to install, in parallel with the buried cables, the pipes in which the cooling
water passes. In this case, the heat transfer modelling must take into account the soil parameters,
depth of cable burial, location of the water pipes, and other factors varying along the cable route.
This cooling method is not proper for the extruded insulation cables—except for the case in which a tight
sheath for water is used. Tobin et al. [48] proposed a prototype of a chilled-water heat removal system,
applied to underground urban distribution systems. The proposed system raised the possibility of
carrying current with about 60% for 13 to 115 kV cables. More recently, Klimenta et al. [50] proposed a
solution based on hydronic asphalt pavements. In the case in which the water cooling cannot be used
to reduce the hot spots, Brakelmann et al. [47] propose gravitational water cooling as a solution.
Eﬀective Soil Thermal Conductivity
The eﬀective thermal conductivity (keﬀ) is a thermal property of a multi-phase (air, water, solid) soil.
It represents the soil capacity to transfer heat by conduction under unit temperature gradient,
as a function of the volumetric fractions of the soil microstructure, soil phases, and the phases
connectivity [51,52].
The main factors that inﬂuence the eﬀective thermal conductivity of soil under isothermal
conditions are: soil mineralogy, solid particle shape and size, gradation, cementation, porosity,
packing geometry, water content (or saturation degree), soil temperature, and stress level [53].
A synthesis of these factors is provided below.
In soil mineralogy, the soil is considered a multi-phase system (a three- or four-phase system) because
its composition includes solid (mineral) particles, water, air, and sometimes ice (in some cold zones) [15].
The solid particles contain soil minerals (e.g., one of them is the quartz with the biggest
thermal conductivity 8.4 W/(m·K) compared to other minerals, see [54]), which are surrounded by
water and air [55].
Furthermore, the thermal conductivity of the dry soil at a temperature of 10 ◦C is less
than 0.5 W/(m·K) and depends on the packing density and mineral composition [56].
In the
dry
zone, the air impedes heat conduction, and this heat transfer phenomenon takes place
through the contact points of the solid particles.
If air is replaced by water, a signiﬁcant
enhancement of the heat conduction is observed. Therefore, the order of the thermal conductivities is
kair < kdry soil < kwater < k water−saturated soil < kmineral [15,56–58].
Solid particle size and shape have a signiﬁcant inﬂuence on the positioning of primary and secondary
solid particles. In natural soils, the soft particles are included into bigger particles of diﬀerent sizes
and shapes. In addition, the number of contact points of the solid particles has a signiﬁcant inﬂuence
on the soil thermal conductivity. As it is known, the heat transfer in soils relies on the solid phase and
occurs across the contact points, especially in the dry zone, because the air thermal conductivity is
reduced compared to the solid particles of soil (the air thermal conductivity is 0.0026 W/(m· K)) [16].
Moreover, fewer contact points and bigger solid particles lead to increased soil thermal conductivity [59].
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
13 of 38
Gradation represents the distribution of various sizes of individual solid particles inside a soil zone.
The soil with a good gradation presents a good heat transfer because the little solid particles ﬁll the
interstitial space of pores and raise the coordinates among the solid particles [15].
Cementation also inﬂuences soil thermal conductivity if the solid particles of soil are cemented
together by binders or clay (the thermal conductivity is 1.28 W/(m·K) [54] the contact area will increase.
The soil thermal conductivity will majorly increase [60,61].
Porosity inﬂuences soil thermal conductivity. The void ratio is a parameter to assess the compactness
soil and represents the ratio between the voids volume to the solid volume. Based on the sketch of the
volumetric ratios of soils shown in Figure 4, the void ratio is calculated as follows:
e = Vv
Vs
=
σ
1 −σ.
(35)
Figure 4. Sketch of the volumetric ratios of soils.
The lower the void ratio, the greater the thermal conductivity [57]. Porosity is the ratio between
the voids volume and total or bulk volume of soil.
σ =
Vv
Vtot
=
e
1 + e.
(36)
Packing geometry highlights that good coordination among the solid particles increases the soil
thermal conductivity [60]. The packing density is the ratio between the solid volume to the total volume,
ζp =
Vs
Vtot
.
(37)
The eﬀect of the soil density on soil thermal conductivity is relatively low. The rise of the soil
density leads to the signiﬁcant growth of the contact point’s number, but not at a substantial increment
of the soil thermal conductivity [62].
Water content plays an important role in obtaining soil thermal conductivity. In unsaturated soils,
the growth of the soil thermal conductivity with the water content increase highlights the signiﬁcant
contribution of the pore conduction [15,34]. Water movement also inﬂuences soil thermal conductivity.
At temperatures less than 0 ◦C the water frozen in the soil and the soil thermal conductivity are modiﬁed.
Conversely, at high temperatures, water is changed into water vapour molecules, and the soil thermal
conductivity increases.
The inﬂuence of the soil temperature on the soil thermal conductivity is analysed in [63].
The thermal conductivity of nine soil samples at the soil temperature ranging from 30 to 90 ◦C
was measured. The results showed that in moist soil, the thermal conductivity had a signiﬁcant
increment with the soil temperature, obtaining values three to ﬁve times the 30 ◦C value when the
sample soil temperature was 90 ◦C. Hiraiwa and Kasubuchi [64] noted that in the case of sandy soils,
the soil thermal conductivity increased as the temperature of the soil increased. Tarnawski and Gori [65]
measured the thermal conductivity of the soil for soil temperatures ranging from 5 to 90 ◦C in the case
of four soil moisture content domains. They demonstrated that soil thermal conductivity has a low
variation with the soil temperature and water content at reduced moisture contents. Smits et al. [66]
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
14 of 38
measured thermal conductivity for two grains of sand with diﬀerent solid particle sizes for a temperature
range from 30 to 70 ◦C and variable saturation. They observed that the increase of the soil thermal
conductivity with the temperature is for temperatures higher than 50 ◦C at low to intermediate
saturation. When the soil is close to saturation, and at the lowest saturations, the temperature did not
have a measurable eﬀect on the thermal conductivity. At the temperatures ranging from 30 to 50 ◦C,
the thermal conductivity has a small variation with the temperature.
Stress level also plays an important role, in the sense that higher stress leads to higher contact radii
resulting in an increment of the soil thermal conductivity. In addition, under higher stress, the granular
chains enhance the heat transfer in soil [15,67]. Many thermal conductivity models have been proposed
to obtain accurate predictions of the eﬀective thermal conductivity. The models have been divided into
three model types: mixing models, empirical models, and mathematical models.
The mixing models, called theoretical/physical models, consider the soil as a three-phase system
(solid, water and air) in which the phases are represented as a particular combination of series and
parallel in the soil sample [15]. The mixing models are based on the mixing laws (arithmetic, geometric,
and harmonic mean) of the series model and parallel model. The series and parallel models refer to
Wiener bounds (or upper and lower bounds) of thermal conductivity and do not depend on the pore
structure of porous medium [68]. Combinations of such series and parallel models are extensively
presented in [15].
The series model considers a constant heat ﬂux through each layer (Figure 5a). The phases have
diﬀerent thermal conductivities and develop diﬀerent temperature gradients [15].
 
 
(a) Series model 
(b) Parallel model 
Figure 5. Schematic of the fundamental series and parallel models, used to calculate the eﬀective
thermal conductivity.
In this case, the eﬀective thermal conductivity of soil is:
1
keﬀ
=


M
X
n = 1
µn· 1
kn


−1
,
(38)
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
15 of 38
where M is the number of phases (M = 3 for air, water, and solid), µn is the volume fraction of each phase,
and kn is the thermal conductivity of each phase.
The parallel model considers a diﬀerent heat ﬂux through each phase that depends on the thermal
conductivity of each phase (Figure 5b). The phases develop the same temperature gradients.
In this case, the eﬀective thermal conductivity of soil is:
keﬀ=
M
X
n = 1
µn·kn.
(39)
Another theoretical model is the De Vries model [23] and its simpliﬁed form presented in [69].
The De Vries model considers the soil as a mixture of ellipsoidal particles aleatory placed in the wet soil
(continuous water) or the dry soil (ambient). In the wet soil, the solids and air represent the dispersed
phase (the phase that is present in the particle shape), and in the dry soil, the solids and water represent
the dispersed phase. The De Vries model requires many shape factors of ellipsoidal particles that
are diﬃcult to obtain. In this case, the eﬀective thermal conductivity is very inﬂuenced by the shape
factors and water content [70].
The eﬀective thermal conductivity is:
keﬀ=
PM−1
i = 0 Gi·ki·θi
PM−1
i = 0 Gi·θi
,
(40)
where M is the number of phases (air, water, solid); Gi is the percentage of the mean temperature
gradient of each phase. It is inﬂuenced by the shape factors of the ellipsoidal particles and soil
components. The case i = 0 represents the continuous phase, θi is the volume fraction of each phase;
Gi is the percentage of the mean temperature gradient along with each phase; and ki is the thermal
conductivity of each phase.
The model developed by Gori [71] was based on a soil cubic mixing cell and consists of a
comparison between the analytical predictions and the experimental results of the eﬀective thermal
conductivity. The hypothesis to obtain the eﬀective thermal conductivity was to consider parallel
and horizontal isotherms or vertical heat ﬂux lines. The experimental data obtained in [71] on the
unsaturated frozen soils showed that the hypothesis with parallel and horizontal isotherms better
predicts the eﬀective thermal conductivity.
In the case of saturated frozen or dry soils, a cubic cell representing the soil was placed inside
a cubic space (Figure 6a).
The unfrozen water was distributed along the cubic cell length Lt.
Furthermore, the ratio between the cubic cell length Lt and the solid length Ls depends on the
soil porosity.
In the case of the parallel and horizontal isotherms, the analytical expression of the eﬀective
thermal conductivity is:
1
keﬀ
=
1 −Lt
Ls
kc·(1 −uw) + kw·uw
+
Lt
Ls
kc·
 Lt
Ls
2·(1 −uw) −1

+ kw·uw·
 Lt
Ls
2 + ks
,
(41)
where keﬀis the eﬀective thermal conductivity for parallel and horizontals isotherms, ρT =
1
kT is the
eﬀective thermal resistivity, and kc is the thermal conductivity of continuous phase (for the frozen
soils kcp = ki and for the dry soils kcp = ka). The other thermal conductivities refer to the ice (ki),
the air (ka), the water (kw), and the solid (ks). Furthermore, uw =
Vuw
Vtot cell is the ratio between the
unfrozen water volume and the total volume of the cubic cell, Vuw is the unfrozen water volume,
Vtot cell is the cubic cell volume.
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
16 of 38
(a) Dry condition 
(b) Low moisture condition 
୚w
୚v  < 
୚wa
୚v  
 (c) Bridges around 
୚w
୚v  > 
୚wa
୚v  
Figure 6. Representation of the saturated soils, (a), and the unsaturated soils, (b) and (c).
In the case of the unsaturated frozen soils, the analytical expressions of the eﬀective thermal
conductivity are more complex and are computed for two cases: the water content is less than the ratio
Vwa
Vv (Figure 6a); the water content is higher than the ratio Vwa
Vv (Figure 6b).
In the Gori model, the solid phase is placed in the centre, with the bridges increasing around
the solid particle or water ﬁlms. The remaining space is occupied with the air. The change of solid,
water and air in the dry condition, low moisture condition and unsaturated condition with bridges
around is shown in Figure 6.
Other theoretical models are widely presented in [16] and [51]. The theoretical models depend
on a number of correlated factors, such as the ones recalled at the beginning of this subsection.
Hence, the formulation of these models is quite challenging [52].
The empirical models are based on the mathematical and numerical assessment of experimental
values between eﬀective thermal conductivity and the measured soil properties (such as the degree
of saturation or temperatures) [51]. The empirical models determine the expression between the
relative thermal conductivity and the water content or saturation degree by normalizing the eﬀective
thermal conductivity [72]. The normalized thermal conductivity aﬃrms that the eﬀective thermal
conductivity is estimated with the Kersten number, that is a linear combination of the saturated thermal
conductivity ksat and the dry soil conductivity kdry [73]:
Ke =
keﬀ−kdry
ksat −kdry
⇒keﬀ= Ke·

ksat −kdry

+ kdry.
(42)
The saturated thermal conductivity ksat is determined with the geometric mean method:
ksat = kσ
w·k1−σ
s
,
(43)
where σ is the porosity.
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
17 of 38
The dry thermal conductivity kdry can be expressed in function of the porosity [73]:
kdry =
σ + 6.65·(1 −σ)
σ + 0.053·(1 −σ)
± 20%,
(44)
The upper bound and the lower bound that appear in Equation (44) are not considered for the sake of
facilitating the calculation. New empirical models have been formulated by various researchers by
modifying this model [16,51,52].
The mathematical models are adapted from predictive models of physical properties.
These
properties
are
electric
and
hydraulic
conductivities,
dielectric
permittivity,
and magnetic permeability.
These models are calculated by using the mathematical methods
that take into account the volume fractions and thermal conductivity of each phase [51]. The details
about these models are extensively presented in [16,51].
2.5. Finite Cable Length
The general hypothesis for carrying out studies of cable rating is that the cable length is virtually
inﬁnite. However, in some cases, there are situations in which this hypothesis is no longer true.
An example is the short-conduit, typically used for providing additional protection to buried cables that
cross the streets or pass near other pipelines [74]. The length of the short-conduit and the conditions of
heat dissipation depend on the speciﬁc case. The short-conduit cable is composed of a buried section
and a conduit section (Figure 7). The classical methods, as well as the method indicated in the standard
IEC 60287 [75], cannot be applied directly to this situation. An approximation is possible only if the
heat transfer along the axis is not modelled. However, in actual conditions, the heat dissipation is better
in the buried section. Hence, part of the heat generated in the conduit section reaches the buried section
in the axial direction, creating an axial temperature gradient [73]. For this reason, the calculations
carried out by ignoring the axial phenomena lead to incorrect results for the assessment of the thermal
cable phenomena, with possible underestimation of the maximum temperature in the buried section
and overestimation of the maximum temperature in the conduit section. The latter would create a
disadvantage for the full usage of conduit sections [73].
Figure 7. Heat transfer in the axial direction for a short-conduit cable (adapted from [74]).
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
18 of 38
The eﬀects of the length of the short-conduit cable, buried depth and soil resistivity have
been investigated in [76] through 3D thermal simulations.
In general, the initial point for the
computation of the cable radial temperature has been based on a known thermal parameter
of the environment [77,78].
In practice, however, the soil thermal conductivity is variable.
For short-conduit cables, the accurate determination of the thermal environmental parameters in
real-time is a challenging task. For this purpose, a speciﬁc method for determining the current real-time
capacity of short-conduit cables has been proposed in [73]. A simpliﬁed quasi-3D thermal model is
set up, and an iterative procedure is formulated starting from the real-time temperature at the conduit
surface, measured in the conduit section, the temperature at the cable surface in the buried part,
as well as the current that ﬂows in the cable. The axial heat ﬂow is updated during the iterations,
together with the other variables.
2.6. Lack of Geometrical Symmetry
Even when the cable is modelled as a system with cylindrical symmetry (also including possible
junctions), the overall system around the cable could not be geometrically symmetric. For example,
for cables in conduits, a simple geometrically symmetric structure could adopt a concentric conﬁguration.
However, this conﬁguration is not physical and does not correspond to the symmetric distribution of
the temperatures, mainly because of convection. In [79], physical non-symmetric cases with “eccentric”
and “cradle” conﬁgurations have been analysed, indicating that one of the main shortcomings in
setting up a thermal model could be the over-simpliﬁcation of the cable location in unﬁlled conduits.
The eﬀect is that the average temperature at the conductor-insulation interface in the case of concentric
formation can be higher than for the eccentric and cradle conﬁgurations.
Other causes of lack of symmetry appear in helicoidal cables [80], in which the location of the
cores changes at diﬀerent horizontal cross-sections. Modelling such a system requires a software tool
able to support 3D simulations, and the preparation of the geometry would be better supported by the
deﬁnition of the symmetric structure, followed by the application of a torsional operator.
Non-symmetry also appears when a failure occurs in a given point of the cable. In this case,
the properties of the materials change around the failure point and can create more non-symmetry
when the failure evolves in time. This thing makes the cable modelling in transient conditions
more complex, but is also relevant to the identiﬁcation of failure paths, leading to hot spots and
progressive deterioration of the materials. In this case, lack of symmetry also appears when there are
multiple cables close to each other and the eﬀect of the cable failure during time causes thermal eﬀects
to other cables, with temperature variations due to the mutual thermal coupling.
2.7. Non-Buried Cables
The underground cables mainly addressed in this paper cover most of the existing installations.
However, there are other installations for which the thermal model has to be adapted. Some cases are
described in chapter 10 of [9], including cables located within protective walls (such as covered trays,
protective risers, or tunnels), and cables placed in uncovered trays. When the cables are installed in air,
the main heat transfer mode becomes the convection, either natural, or forced (if an airﬂow along the
cable is present), and radiation. In contrast, conduction in the air is typically neglected [9].
Submarine cables are used in high voltage direct current electric transmission systems, generally
with single-core cables. For submarine cables, in any case, part of the path close to the cable terminals
is buried in the soil, and is typically the bottleneck on the thermal side, with the possible occurrence
of high temperatures. Among the various solutions, using a cooling pipe with circulating water
would improve the thermal conditions [81]. In this case, the thermal model becomes more elaborated,
to include the eﬀects of the solutions for cooling the cable.
In recent years, with the progressive integration of oﬀshore wind farms, the number of three-core
submarine cables has increased. For these cables, speciﬁc thermal analysis is needed, taking into
account the internal and external characteristics. Submarine cables are subject to thermo-mechanical
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
19 of 38
stresses, which can be analysed in a multi-physics environment [82]. Further issues that appeared,
owing to the increased usage of submarine cables for oﬀshore applications, include the crossings among
submarine cables, which can cause temperature increase at the crossing points. These cases cannot be
handled by using the classical image method, and their analytical formulation would also depend on
the model of the subsea thermal environment [83]. In particular, in this thermal environment, the eﬀect
of sediments on the heat transfer characteristics is not negligible [84]. The sediments are a mixture of
solid and liquid components, which impact on conductive heat transfer. Moreover, if the permeability
of the sediments is high, the convective heat transfer can be signiﬁcant [85]. The thermal properties of
the sediments (e.g., thermal conductivity and volumetric heat capacity) have to be considered in the
overall thermal model.
3. Thermal Models and Thermal Analysis Methods
3.1. Thermal Models of Power Cables and Electrothermal Analogy
The thermal resistance Rt is the ratio of the temperature diﬀerence between the two faces of a
material to the rate of heat ﬂow per unit area. The thermal capacitance Ct represents the ability of a
material to absorb and store the heat for using it later. In the electrothermal analogy, the thermal circuit is
modelled by representing an equivalent electrical circuit, in which currents are equivalent to heat ﬂows,
and voltages are equivalent to temperatures. If the thermal parameters are independent of temperature,
the equivalent circuit is linear. In this case, to solve a heat transfer problem, the superposition principle
is applied [10].
The conductive thermal resistance of a cylindrical wall (e.g., cable insulation) having the inner
diameter di and the outer diameter de is:
Rt cond =
ρ
2π ln de
di
,
(45)
where ρ is the thermal resistivity.
The conductive thermal resistance of a plane wall is:
Rt cond = ρ
δ
Scond
,
(46)
where δ is the thickness of the wall, and Scond is the cross-section of the wall.
The convective thermal resistance is:
Rt conv =
1
hconv·Sconv
,
(47)
where Sconv is the convective heat transfer surface, and hconv is the convective heat transfer coeﬃcient.
The radiative thermal resistance is:
Rt rad =
1
hrad·Srad
,
(48)
where Srad is the radiative heat transfer surface, and hrad is the radiative heat transfer coeﬃcient.
The total heat transfer coeﬃcient for a cable installed in air is:
htotal = hconv + hrad.
(49)
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
20 of 38
The thermal capacity Ct for a coaxial conﬁguration (e.g., cylindrical insulation of a cable) having
the inner diameter di and the outer diameter de, is:
Ct = π·d
4 ·

de2 −di2
|             {z             }
V
·cp,
(50)
where V is the volume of the cylindrical conﬁguration.
The thermal conductance is a measure of the rate of heat ﬂow through a body, and it is the
reciprocal of the thermal resistance:
K =
1
Rt
.
(51)
The typical thermal models of the cables have been constructed by resorting to the electrothermal
analogy (Table 1). Mostly, the resistors represent the thermal resistances; the capacitors represent the
thermal capacities, which are essential to model the thermal transients in real operating conditions.
The generators represent the heat sources due to diﬀerent types of losses (e.g., Joule losses in
the conductor, dielectric losses, and losses in the sheath and armour) [11,86].
Table 1. Electrothermal analogy.
Electrical Parameters
Symbol and Unit
Thermal Parameters
Symbol and Unit
Electric conductivity
ν
h
(Ω·m)−1i
Thermal conductivity
k
h
W·(m·K)−1i
Electric resistance
Re [Ω]
Thermal resistance
Rt
h
m·K·W−1i
Electric current
I [A]
Heat ﬂow rate
.
Q [W]
Capacitance
Ce [F]
Thermal capacity
Ct
h
J·K−1i
Electric potential
U [V]
Absolute
temperature
T [K]
Ground potential
0 [V]
Absolute zero
0 [K]
In Table 2, the values of thermal resistivity and thermal capacity for some materials and soils in
diﬀerent conditions are reported. Typical values of other coeﬃcients for the materials used in cables
and backﬁll materials can be found in [10,31].
Speciﬁc representations of the equivalent circuit considered to model the cable in operational
conditions have been presented for the cable and the outer part (the soil and the ambient). The soil can
be divided around a buried cable into many concentric layers. Compatibility with the IEC standards
is obtained by representing each layer with an equivalent thermal circuit of T-type, composed of
the thermal capacitance of the layer, as well as the thermal resistance of the layer divided by two
(see Figure 8) [87].
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
21 of 38
Table 2. Values of thermal resistivity and thermal capacity for some materials [10].
Material
Thermal Resistivity
[(m·K)/W]
Thermal Capacity
(c·10−6)
[J/(m3·K)]
Insulating materials
Paper insulation in solid-type cables
6.0
2.0
Paper insulation in oil-ﬁled cables
5.0
2.0
PE
3.5
2.0
XLPE
3.5
2.0
Polyvinyl chloride for up to and including 3 kV cables
5.0
1.7
Polyvinyl chloride for greater than 3 kV cables
6.0
1.7
EPR for up to and including 3 kV cables
3.5
2.0
EPR for greater than 3 kV cables
5.0
2.0
Protective coverings
Compounded jute and ﬁbrous materials
6.0
2.0
Rubber sandwich protection
6.0
2.0
Polychlroprene
5.5
2.0
PVC for up to and including 35 kV cables
5.0
1.7
PVC for greater than 35 kV cables
6.0
1.7
PE
3.5
2.4
Materials for duct installations
Concrete
1.0
2.3
Fiber
4.8
2.0
Asbestos
2.0
2.0
Earthenware
1.2
1.8
PVC
3.5
2.4
PE
3.5
2.4
Figure 8. The thermal circuit of the soil with multiple soil layers.
The thermal resistance Rst for each layer of the soil is given by:
Rst = ρs
2π·log (1 + 2δs
dis
),
(52)
where ρs is the thermal resistivity of the soil, δs is the soil thickness, and dis is the inner diameter of the
soil layer.
The thermal capacity Cst for each layer of the soil is given by:
Cst = π
4 ·

des2 −dis2
·Ct soil,
(53)
where des is the outer diameter of the soil layer, and Ct soil is the thermal capacity of the soil.
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
22 of 38
The RC ladder of the soil is obtained by linking together all the RC ladder layers of the buried
cable (Figure 9). The electrothermal circuit is obtained by linking together the ladder model of the cable
with the ladder model of the soil [88]. The equivalent thermal resistances of the soil are calculated as:

Rst0
=
Rst1
2
R1
=
Rst1
2
+ Rst2
2
R2
=
Rst2
2
+ Rst3
2
R3
=
Rst3
2
+ Rst4
2
. . .
R
n
=
Rstn−1
2
+ Rstn
2
.
(54)
Figure 9. The lumped thermal parameter network of a buried cable and the soil.
To represent fast transients, an RC circuit with a low RC time constant is used. Conversely, the long
transients, which are useful for determining the heat to be transferred at far soil layers, are studied
with an RC circuit with a high RC time constant [87].
The relevant temperature rise Te(τ) in transient conditions is the one determined at the external
surface of the hottest cable. The IEC Standard 60853 establishes how to calculate this temperature rise.
Let us consider the distance dp,w from the centre of the hottest cable p to the centre of the generic
cable w in a group of NC cables (for single-core cables, the number of cables is NC = 1). Let us further
consider the distance ˆdp,w between the centre of the hottest cable p and the centre of the image of the
generic cable w.
For long transients, the temperature rise is:
Te(τ) = ρ·
.ql
4·π ·
"
−Ei
 
−D2
16·a·τ
!
+ Ei
 
−L2
a·τ
!#
+
NC−1
X
w = 1

−Ei

−
d2
p,w
4·a·τ

+ Ei

−
ˆd2
p,w
4·a·τ



.
(55)
For fast transients, the eﬀect of the images is considered negligible, so that:
Te(τ) = ρ·
.ql
4·π ·
"
−Ei
 
−D2
16·a·τ
!#
+
NC−1
X
w = 1

−Ei

−
d2
p,w
4·a·τ



.
(56)
3.2. Methods for Thermal Analysis of Power Cables
The thermal analysis of power cables and overhead lines is typically conducted with analytical and
numerical methods [78]. In the sections below, the main methods for the two categories are described.
Table 3 summarizes some diﬀerences among the considered methods. The characteristics taken into
account are: the computational burden, which represents the resources required by a computing
machine to solve the problem; versatility, which describes the possibility to model complex scenarios
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
23 of 38
characterized for example by non-homogeneous geometries or materials; geometrical dimension,
which deﬁnes the number of geometrical dimensions of the simulated domain; multi-physics approach,
which pinpoints the possibility to carry out a simulation combining several physical domains.
Table 3. Characteristics of the considered methods.
Method
Computational Burden
Versatility
Geometrical Dimension
Multi-Physics Approach
Analytical methods
low
low
2D/3D
no
Finite Diﬀerence Method (FDM)
high
medium
2D/3D
no
Finite Element Method (FEM)
high
high
2D/3D
yes
Thermal-electrical analogy
medium
medium
2D
no
3.2.1. Analytical Methods
The temperature distribution inside and outside the cable is computed by analytically solving the
heat diﬀusion equation.
The increase of the transient temperature of the external surface of a cable with respect to the
temperature of the soil can be determined by considering the cable as a heat source immersed in a
homogeneous medium in which the initial temperature is uniform. In this case, at any point in the soil
the transient temperature T(τ) is expressed by using Equation (5) having the solution indicated in
Equation (6). The principal issue of this analytical approach is that inhomogeneity of materials and cable
structures cannot be taken into account [89]. Moreover, it is possible to solve the heat ﬂow equation
in diﬀerent coordinate systems by separating the variables only when the internal heat generation
is null. Therefore, only a limited number of geometries and boundary conditions can be studied with
this approach [90]. Some techniques to partially overcome this problem have recently been proposed.
For instance, an extension of the approach provided by IEC 60287 is presented in [87]. In this method,
which stays simple-to-use, the soil is divided into concentric layers, each one characterized by a thermal
resistance and capacitance forming a lumped circuit. Unfortunately, at ﬁnite depth, the isotherms
around a buried power cable are highly asymmetric, and cannot be easily modelled with concentric
layers of the soil. In [91], the soil is thus analytically modelled through non-concentric layers.
3.2.2. Numerical Methods
Numerical methods can be adopted to solve the heat transfer diﬀusion equation. The main
numerical methods used in literature to determine the temperature distribution inside the cable and
in the external environment are: Finite Diﬀerence Method (FDM) [45,92], Finite Element Method
(FEM) [93–95], and thermal-electrical analogy [17]. FDM and FEM require making a mesh of discrete
points in which the temperature is computed. In FDM, mesh grids are generally in cylindrical and
rectangular coordinates, while in FEM, diﬀerent mesh shapes can be chosen, taking into account the
geometry of the objects under analysis. Techniques to increase the number of mesh elements have been
developed. It is considered that the temperature gradient is higher or closer to the point of interest
in the analysis [96]. Both for FDM and FEM, the speed of solution increases as the number of points
studied decreases, but at the expense of the solution accuracy [45].
For both methods, inhomogeneity of the materials can be taken into account. However, only
FEM allows the simulation of complex scenarios. In particular, FEM is adopted to investigate the
impacts of the trench geometry and of the backﬁll material type and formation, such as for example
the presence of multiple circuits [97], ground surface heat [89], cable trench proﬁle [98], concrete and
asphalt cover [76,99,100], and mixtures for bedding [101].
From the mathematical formulation point of view, FDM requires to solve the ﬁnite diﬀerence
temperature equations that have the form of Equation (57) to compute the temperature distribution [92]:
Ti,j =
α Ti−1,j + β Ti+1,j + γ Ti,j−1 + ξ Ti,j+1
(α + β + γ + ξ)
,
(57)
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
24 of 38
where Ti,j is the temperature at the node of the mesh (identiﬁed by the indexes i, j), and α, β, γ, ξ are
constant values, in the function of the location of the central node, of the thermal characteristics of
the soil, and the heat transfer propagation type (conduction or convection).
Following the FEM method, the transient temperature equation for a cable partitioned into Nf
ﬁnite elements can be written in the general form reported in Equations (58) and (59) [93]:
C dΘ(τ)
dτ
+ (KC + Kh) Θ =
.q(τ),
(58)
.q(τ) =
.qgen(τ) +
.qh(τ),
(59)
where C is Nf by Nf heat capacitance matrix, Θ is an N by 1 column vector of node temperatures, KC
and Kh are Nf by Nf thermal conductance and convection matrices, and
.qgen(τ) and
.qh(τ) are Nf by 1
column vectors of heat ﬂuxes arising from internal heat generation and surface convection.
Some software-based FEM (e.g., COMSOL Multiphysics and ANSYS) allows multi-physics
simulations that are particularly convenient in determining the dynamic thermal rating of electric
cables [102,103]. For example, if the electromagnetic and temperature ﬁelds are computed together,
simulation results are expected to be more realistic since they are not based on the simpliﬁed hypothesis
of ﬁeld distribution [104,105]. In this case, the currents in the three-phase current system, in the
screen and into the soil can be computed considering mutual coupling and skin eﬀects. Therefore,
the temperature distribution can be calculated more accurately [104].
Moreover, thanks to the
multi-physics approach, the molecular properties of the conductors and insulating materials that have
an impact on the temperature distribution ﬁeld can be taken into account. For instance, the interface
between metal and polymer, which is inﬂuenced by diﬀerent parameters such as the resonance or
mismatch of phonon vibrational mode frequencies and the morphology of the insulation material
(crystalline, amorphous and lamellae), can be evaluated [106,107].
Unfortunately, multi-physics analysis usually increases the complexity of the simulation. In fact,
considering multi-physics domains often implicates multiscaling, which means that the combined
physical models have signiﬁcant diﬀerences in space or time scales [104].
For example, in the
cable current rating evaluation, an increment of the complexity could be due to the diﬀerent mesh
density requirements of the combined physical models: the eddy current calculation in the thin solid
screen requires several layers of ﬁnite elements across the screen thickness, whereas for heat transfer
calculation a single layer is enough. Researchers usually adopt this approach only if the usage of the
same mesh for both the domains implicates an acceptable increment of the computational time [104].
Especially for cable line ordinary constructions and depending on the purpose of the simulation,
simplifying hypotheses can be assumed without having a signiﬁcant impact on the results [104,108,109].
In [109], a comparison between the results obtained through the simpliﬁed approach proposed by
IEC 60287 [31] and through multi-physics FEM simulations is provided for various cable line layouts.
For an underground three-phase line formed by three single-core cables (cross-section of 630 mm2,
XLPE insulation) in ﬂat formation, the conductor temperatures diﬀer with about 4 ◦C, which means a
percentage deviation of around 5% if the FEM simulation are assumed as by reference [109]. Vice-versa,
for complex scenarios such as the cable duct described in the paper (10 rows, 4 ducts per row, in which
both 185 mm2 and 240 mm2 single core cables are installed, XLPE insulation), simpliﬁed IEC 60287
model provides lower temperatures of the cable (diﬀerence up to 27 ◦C) with a percentage deviation of
around 20% [109].
When simulation purposes are required to consider large volumes/surfaces, and therefore
geometrical objects characterized by signiﬁcant diﬀerent dimensions are involved in the simulation
(e.g., a cable line and a large soil volume), analytical models are usually more appropriate than
numerical methods that need to mesh the domains. The mesh creation process could result in a
complex task.
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
25 of 38
The critical point of FDM and FEM consists of the high computational resources needed to make
the mesh and solve the heat diﬀusion equations.
The thermal-electrical analogy, also known as the matrix approach, is the third numerical method
described in this paper and presents similarities with the FDM [88,110]. As already mentioned in
Section 3.1, this method exploits the analogies between heat transmission and electrical equations.
The cables and the surrounding environment are modelled through electrical components such as
resistors, capacitors and generators. The state variable temperature T is represented as the electric
potential at diﬀerent nodes, and the heat ﬂows are solved through an RC circuit. Generally, it is
assumed that the length of the cable is much longer than its diameter, that no axial variations occur and
that the thermal ﬂux distributes only in the radial direction [17]. Moreover, the thermal resistance of
the conductor is not considered, when the heat source is located in the outside section of the conductor.
The system of ﬁrst-order diﬀerential equations that represents the circuit can be written in a matrix
form reported in Equation (60):
dχ(τ)
dτ
= A χ(τ) + B
.qgen(τ) + c Ta(τ),
(60)
where χ(τ) is the vector of the state variables,
.qgen(τ) is the input vector determined by the Joule
losses in the conductor core, Ta(τ) is the ambient temperature, and A, B and c are the dynamic matrix,
the input coeﬃcient matrix, and the disturbance vector, respectively.
4. Steady-State and Dynamic Cable Rating
The previous sections have been dedicated to the thermal quantities, and to the ways to determine
the temperatures in the cable and the surrounding environment. The next paragraphs introduce the
electrical quantities and present the methodologies to compute the cable current rating. In particular,
the steady-state and dynamic cable rating approaches are described. Furthermore, methods to consider
the impact of harmonic currents and the uncertainty of the input parameters (e.g., thermal resistivity
of the soil, environmental temperature, cable loading) are presented.
4.1. Steady-State Cable Rating Calculations
The current rating of the cable can be calculated as the continuous current carried by the cable,
such as the continuous conductor temperature will be equal to the maximum allowable conductor
temperature (this value depends on the insulation material). With these assumptions, steady-state
conditions are assumed for the useful life of the cable. Starting from the thermal model of the cable and
of the surrounding, the IEC Standard 60287 [31] provides the current rating equations with a constant
load (i.e., 100% load factor) taking into account all losses arising in the cable (Joule losses, dielectric
losses, armour and screen losses, etc.). The insulation surrounding the conductor is represented with a
Π equivalent model. The permissible current rating Ir for a cable with n load-carrying conductors can
be calculated as:
Ir =
s
∆T −Wd[0.5Rt1 + n(Rt2 + Rt3 + Rt4)]
ReRt1 + nRe(1 + λ1)Rt2 + nRe(1 + λ1 + λ2)(Rt3 + Rt4),
(61)
where:
∆T is the allowable conductor temperature rise above the ambient temperature, given by the diﬀerence
between the permissible maximum conductor temperature and the ambient temperature;
Wd are the dielectric losses for the insulation surrounding the conductor;
Rt1 is the thermal resistance between one conductor and the sheath;
Rt2 is the thermal resistance between the sheath and the armour;
Rt3 is the thermal resistance of the external serving of the cable;
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
26 of 38
Rt4 is the thermal resistance between the cable surface and the surrounding medium;
λ1 is the ratio of losses in the metal sheath to total losses in all conductors;
λ2 is the ratio of losses in the armouring to total losses in all conductors;
Re is the electric resistance of the conductor evaluated at the maximum allowable conductor temperature.
In particular, Equation (61) is applied for buried cables where drying out of the soil does not occur,
or for cables placed in air. The IEC Standard 60287 [110] provides equations that can be applied for
buried cables in the presence of partial drying-out of the soil and where drying-out of the soil is to
be avoided.
On the basis of Equation (61), the cable current rating depends on the electrical and thermal
parameters of the cable and on the thermal parameters of the soil.
When a higher value of the current rating is required, the analysis of Equation (61) can help
understanding how to vary the parameters to increase the current ratings. A review on this problem
is provided in [11], and the main results of [11] are summarized here. The cable current rating can
be increased by reducing the thermal resistances, that is, by reducing the burial depth, by increasing
the cable spacing, by using thermally controlled backﬁll with very low thermal resistivity or with
natural or forced cooling; or by reducing the electrical resistance, by using special conﬁgurations for the
conductors such as insulated wire Milliken-type conductor. Of course, the increase of the admissible
temperature, obtainable when insulation materials exhibiting better thermal performances are used,
will result in a greater current rating.
4.2. Dynamic Cable Rating
The application of the steady-state current rating of cables could resultingly be conservative
in some cases due to the variation of the conductor temperature during the useful life of the cable
according to the inputs of the thermal models. Hence, during the years, the assessment of the thermal
stress of the lines has passed from the steady-state thermal rating to a more general Dynamic Line
Rating (DLR) or Dynamic Thermal Rating (DTR), able to characterize the thermal transients and
their consequences better. The DLR is aimed at determining the actual current rating of the line on
the basis of continuous measurements or solution of the thermal model of the cable. Conservative
assumptions on input variables, such as those assumed in the steady-state cable rating calculations,
are no longer considered. Considering dynamic current ratings instead of static ratings allows
increasing the estimated capacity of the cable.
While many contributions appeared in the past with respect to overhead lines, underground
cables have been recently taken into consideration to apply the concepts of dynamic rating [87,111].
4.3. Eﬀect of Harmonics on Cable Rating
The thermal-electric model initially proposed for the deﬁnition of cable current rating was extended
to account for the presence of harmonic distortion. Indeed, Joule losses, as well as dielectric losses,
are aﬀected by harmonic distortion. The problem is complex, and some proposals are available in the
relevant literature.
Harmonic currents in distribution systems are increasing due to the increased usage of power
electronics-based appliances, converters and, recently, of inverter interfaced distributed generation
and electric vehicle chargers. The presence of current components at harmonic frequencies imposes to
evaluate the behaviour of the cables at those frequencies, and several aspects have to be considered.
First, the harmonic components of the current contribute to the heating of the cable. Moreover,
the resistance of the cables varies with the frequency and, in particular, at frequencies higher than
the fundamental power frequency, the resistance increases due to the skin eﬀect and proximity eﬀect.
Speciﬁc attention is needed for the neutral conductor (when present) because of the non-cancellation
of zero sequence harmonic currents. The additional heating due to harmonic distortion may lead to a
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
27 of 38
higher cable temperature. Then, it has to be considered in the determination of cable current rating
when the cable carries a distorted current.
In several papers addressing these issues, the eﬀect of harmonic currents supplied by the cable on
its ampacity is handled by deﬁning proper derating factors of the cable [112–114]. The derating factor
is deﬁned as “the ratio of the RMS value of a distorted current with a speciﬁc harmonic signature to
the RMS value of a current of the fundamental frequency that produces the same losses in the cable as
the distorted one” [99]. It can be calculated only when the model of the cable at harmonic frequencies
is available, and the harmonic signature of the current is given.
Meliopoulos and Martin [112] address the problem of the evaluation of the cable ampacity when
the cable supplies highly distorted current. In particular, low voltage supply systems are considered.
The proposal is based on the extension of the Neher-McGrath equations to account for the additional
losses due to harmonics.
The Joule losses of the cable for distorted current Ploss are calculated in [112] as:
Ploss =
H
X
h = 1
RehI2
h,
(62)
where Reh is the conductor resistance at the hth harmonic, Ih is the RMS value of the hth harmonic
current, and H is the maximum harmonic order. The evaluation of the resistance at the hth harmonic
requires the application of speciﬁc relationship able to account for the dependence of the skin eﬀect
and the proximity eﬀect on the frequency. Models for evaluating the resistance of a cable conductor at
a generic frequency are available starting from classical books. Additionally, in [112], the most relevant
formulas are reported.
To calculate the losses, the spectrum of the current carried by the cable has to be known. A derating
factor is proposed in [112] to determine the distorted current that produces the same losses of an
undistorted current. Given the harmonic signature {IB, α1, . . . , αH}, being IB the base RMS current, and
αh per unit value of the hth harmonic with respect to the base value IB, the derating factor is deﬁned as:
DF =
s
α2
1I2
BRe1
Ploss
,
(63)
where Re1 is the resistance at the fundamental frequency, and IB is the base RMS current.
In [113] an expression is proposed for the derating factor depending on the “harmonic signature”
and on the ratios between the conductor resistances at harmonics and the conductor resistance at the
fundamental power frequency.
A ﬁnite-element analysis is applied in [46] to analyse the eﬀect of harmonic currents on
PVC-insulated, low-voltage (0.6/1.0-kV) power cables symmetrically loaded and placed in free air;
four-conductor cables (three phases and neutral) are considered and cables with a cross-section of
the neutral conductor equal to or less than that of the phase conductors are taken into consideration.
The results reported in [46] indicate that the derating factor depends on the cable conﬁguration and
on the type of non-linear loads the cable will supply. In [99], the inﬂuence of the metallic tray on the
ampacity derating factor is evaluated; in particular, it is demonstrated that the derating factor increases
with the cable cross-section.
An application of the harmonic derating factor to pipe-type cables is provided in [114].
The particular case of concentric neutral cables used in North America for power distribution systems,
is addressed in [115], while cables with impregnated paper insulation are considered in [116].
A recent contribution [117] is aimed at including the presence of harmonic currents generated
by electric vehicles (EV) chargers in the evaluation of temperatures and ampacity of medium voltage
(MV) cables. The model used in [117] is an extension of the IEC formula for the assessment of the
ampacity. Speciﬁcally, the variation of the resistance with the frequency, as well as the variation of
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
28 of 38
the losses in the sheath layer and in the steel armour layer, is considered. While in non-distorted
conditions Equation (60) has to applied, in distorted conditions (and neglecting the dielectric losses)
the current rating Ir,distorted conditions of MV cables is evaluated as in [117]:
Ir,distorted conditions =
v
u
u
t
Tmax −Ta
PH
h = 1 Reh
I2
h
I2
1
[Rt1 + n(1 + λ1h)Rt2 + n(1 + λ1h + λ2h)(Rt3 + Rt4)]
, (64)
where Tmax is the permissible maximum conductor temperature, Ta is the ambient temperature, and λ1h
and λ2h are the ratios of the losses in the metal sheath layer and in the steel armour layer, respectively,
at the hth harmonic, to the total conductor losses.
In [117], several cases have been considered with diﬀerent electric vehicle chargers, and
the ampacity of a three-core XLPE Medium Voltage cable is evaluated with respect to typical
charging proﬁles. The results demonstrate that the derating factor decreases as the cross-section of
the cable increases. Moreover, the derating factor depends on the harmonic distortion of the current
and, therefore, depends on the typology of electric vehicle chargers that are supplied. The values
of the derating factor evaluated in [117] range from 89% (in the worst scenario, for single-phase
uncontrolled rectiﬁers rated at 6.6 kW) to about 99.7% (for uncontrolled rectiﬁer topology with power
factor correction).
4.4. Probabilistic Models and Risk Analysis for Calculation of Current Rating
As demonstrated in Section 4.1, the current rating of a buried cable depends on several factors;
among these, the soil thermal resistivity and the ambient temperature are recognized to be random in
nature [118], therefore, to account for this randomness, some authors proposed a probabilistic approach.
In [119] the temperature of the cable is evaluated considering the random changes of the thermal
resistivity of the native soil and of the backﬁll, the ambient temperature, and the cable loading.
In particular, the thermal resistivity is linked to the soil moisture content, and the relationship
is investigated. A Monte Carlo simulation is performed to select random values for the uncertain
parameters and, then, for each set of values of moisture (and, then, of the thermal resistivity),
of ambient temperature, and of load current, a ﬁnite element analysis allows to evaluate the temperature
of the conductor to obtain accurate predictions of the cable current rating.
In [120] a method to calculate underground cable current rating based on accurate evaluation
of soil thermal resistivity is proposed. Experimental thermal resistivity probability distributions at a
selected site are obtained from monitoring of soil thermal resistivity and rains. The results reported
in [120] demonstrate that the thermal resistivity of the soil can vary over a month and can also maintain
a low value for regular rainfall patterns. Starting from the thermal resistivity probability distributions,
the authors derive conservative assumptions.
Shabani and Vahidi [121] propose a procedure aimed at optimizing the current rating of
underground cables allocated in backﬁll considering the uncertainty of parameters such as soil
thermal resistivity, ambient temperature, and load current. A Monte Carlo procedure is set to simulate
the random variables and, for each set of random numbers, an optimization problem is solved.
The objective function includes the cost of the backﬁll and the deviation of load current and cable
ampacity. The result of the procedure is the probability density function of the cable ampacity.
Zarchi and Vahidi [122] apply the Hong Point Estimate Method to characterize the random temperature
of underground cables in duct banks. The uncertain input variables are the ambient temperature,
the soil thermal resistivity, the backﬁll thermal resistivity and the burial depth; for each of them,
a proper probability density function is assumed. An optimization of the cable conﬁguration, based on
this method, is solved and the total ampacity of underground cables in duct banks has been related to
the chosen conﬁdence level.
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
29 of 38
5. Conclusions
This paper has addressed the thermal models of underground cables, starting from basic models
with general hypotheses towards the adoption of more detailed speciﬁcations to address practical cases.
Heat transfer concepts needed for deriving the thermal model of an underground cable have been
summarized, and applications to particular cases have been deﬁned (e.g., the non-inﬁnite dimension
of the soil, cable with a ﬁnite length). Moreover, the electrothermal analogy has been applied to the
cable thermal model, since it has been widely used in the domain of power systems. The methods
used to simulate the heat transfer in the cables and in the external medium have been summarized to
provide an overview of the main contributions. Finally, the cable thermal models have been applied to
the determination of the cable current rating.
Underground power cables have been extensively studied and modelled for decades; therefore,
many contributions are available in the relevant literature. This review paper has summarized the
historical aspects and has delineated the recent evolutions.
From the literature review, it emerges that there are various developments in progress, which
need further improvements. With respect to the methods, detailed FEM representations, also in 3D, of
cables with the surrounding soil and ambient also in non–uniform conditions are becoming viable,
thanks to the computational speed available. However, there is also an interesting development of
improved models and simpliﬁed models that can provide results comparable with FEM. A topic that is
becoming more attractive is the application of accurate thermal models of cables in the ﬁeld of the
dynamic line rating, recognized as an action that allows better utilization of the cable lines in many
conditions, and is also useful for postponing the investments to upgrade the installed cables.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, D.E., P.C. and A.R.; methodology, D.E., P.C. and A.R.; formal analysis,
D.E., P.C. and A.R.; investigation, D.E., P.C. and A.R.; writing—original draft preparation, D.E., P.C. and A.R.;
writing—review and editing, D.E., P.C. and A.R.; visualization, D.E., P.C. and A.R.; supervision, D.E., P.C. and A.R.
All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
Nomenclature
Acronyms
DLR
Dynamic Line Rating
DTR
Dynamic Thermal Rating
DTS
Distributed Temperature Sensing
FDM
Finite Diﬀerence Method
FEM
Finite Element Method
EV
Electric Vehicles
IEC
International Electrotechnical Commission
MV
Medium Voltage
PVC
Polyvinyl Chloride
RMS
Root Mean Square
XLPE
Cross-Linked Polyethylene
Symbols
A
dynamic matrix
Ah
amplitude of the h-th harmonic
a
thermal diﬀusivity
h m2
s
i
B
input coeﬃcient matrix
B
constant
C
heat capacitance matrix
Ce
capacitance [F]
Ct
thermal capacity
h J
K
i
Cv
volumetric heat capacity
h
J
K·m3
i
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
30 of 38
c
disturbance vector
cp
speciﬁc heat capacity

J
kg·K

DF
derating factor
D
outside diameter of the cable [m]
D1
damping depth of the fundamental
h m2
rad
i
d
thickness of the ﬁctitious layer [m]
de
outer diameter [m]
di
inner diameter [m]
dp,w
distance from the centre of the hottest cable and the centre of
the generic cable [m]
ˆdp,w
distance from the centre of the hottest cable and the centre of
the image of the generic cable [m]
Ei(.)
exponential integral
e
void ratio
F{.}
Fourier transformation
f(x)
Dirac function
Gi
percentage of the mean temperature gradient along each phase
H
maximum harmonic order
h
heat transfer coeﬃcient
h
W
m2·K
i
h
mean heat transfer coeﬃcient
h
W
m2·K
i
I
electric current [A]
IB
base RMS electric current [A]
Ir
permissible current rating [A]
K
thermal conductance
h
W
m2·K
i
KC
thermal conductance matrix
Ke
Kersten number
Kh
convection matrix
k
thermal conductivity
h W
m·K
i
ka
air thermal conductivity

W
(m·K)

ki
thermal conductivity of each phase i (air, water, solid)

W
(m·K)

kdry
dry thermal conductivity

W
(m · K)

ki
ice thermal conductivity

W
(m·K)

kn
thermal conductivity of each phase (solid, water, air)

W
(m·K)

ks
solid thermal conductivity

W
(m·K)

ksat
saturated thermal conductivity

W
(m·K)

kT
eﬀective thermal conductivity for parallel and horizontals
isotherms

W
(m·K)

k .
Q
eﬀective thermal conductivity for parallel and vertical heat ﬂux
lines

W
(m·K)

kw
water thermal conductivity

W
(m·K)

L⟨⟩
Laplace transform
L
distance of the heat source from the soil surface [m]
L′
distance of the heat sink from the ﬁctitious layer [m]
Lt
cubic cell length [m]
Ls
solid length [m]
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
31 of 38
M
number of soil components
N
values of the time series
NC
number of cables
Nf
number of ﬁnite elements
n
load-carrying conductors
Ploss
Joule losses [W]
p
period [s]
.
Q
heat ﬂow rate [W]
∆
.
Q
change of heat ﬂow rate [W]
.qc
conductive heat ﬂux
h W
m2
i
.qds
conductive soil heat ﬂux
h W
m2
i
.qgen
volumetric heat ﬂux (rate of heat generated per unit volume)
h W
m3
i
.qgen
column vector of heat ﬂux arising from internal heat generation
.qgen
input vector determined by the Joule losses
.qh
column vector of heat ﬂux arising from surface convection
.ql
heat ﬂux per unit length
h W
m
i
isothermal latent heat ﬂux
h W
m2
i
.qvT
thermal latent heat ﬂux
h W
m2
i
Rt
thermal resistance
h m·K
W
i
Rt1
thermal resistance between one conductor and the sheath
h m·K
W
i
Rt2
thermal resistance between the sheath and the armour
h m·K
W
i
Rt3
thermal resistance of the external serving of the cable
h m·K
W
i
Rt4
thermal resistance between the cable surface and the
surrounding medium
h m·K
W
i
Re
electric resistance [Ω]
Re1
electric resistance at the fundamental frequency [Ω]
Reh
conductor electric resistance at the hth harmonic [Ω]
r
radius [m]
r′
distance from the heat sink to a point N [m]
r′′
distance from the heat source to a point N [m]
S
heat transfer surface
h
m2i
s
variable of the transformed Fourier domain
T
absolute temperature [K]
Ta
ambient temperature [K]
Te
relevant temperature rise [K]
Ti,j
temperature at the node (i,j) of the mesh [K]
Tmax
permissible maximum conductor temperature [K]
T
mean temperature [K]
uw
ratio between the unfrozen water volume and the total volume
of the cubic cell
V
volume of the cylindrical conﬁguration
h
m3i
Vtot cell
cubic cell volume,
h
m3i
Vuw
unfrozen water volume,
h
m3i
Wd
dielectric losses per unit length
w
dummy variable
x
horizontal coordinate
y
vertical coordinate
z
soil depth [m]
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
32 of 38
Greek symbols
α
constant
αh
per unit value of the hth harmonic with respect to the base
value
β
constant
γ
constant
∆T
temperature diﬀerence [K]
δ
thickness [m]
ζ
density

kg
m3

Θ
column vector of node temperatures
θ
volume fraction of a phase
λ1
ratio of losses in the metal sheath layer to total conductor losses
λ2
ratio of losses in the steel armour layer to total conductor losses
µi
volume fraction of each phase
ν
electric conductivity

1
(Ω·m)

ρ
soil thermal resistivity
h m·K
W
i
σ
porosity
τ
time
ϕh
phase angle of the h-th harmonic [rad]
χ
vector of state variables
ω1
fundamental angular frequency [rad/s]
Subscripts
a
air
c
continuous phase
cond
conductive
conv
convective
gen
generated
h
harmonic
i
ice
i
phase (air, water, solid)
in
input
lat
latent
n
air, water, solid
out
output
p
packing
rad
radiative
s
soil
sat
saturated
stor
stored
st
each layer of soil
tot
total
u
unfrozen
w
water
References
1.
Montanari, G.C.; Mazzanti, G.; Simoni, L. Progress in electrothermal life modeling of electrical insulation
during the last decades. IEEE Trans. Dielectr. Electr. Insul. 2002, 9, 730–745. [CrossRef]
2.
Mazzanti, G. The combination of electrothermal stress, load cycling and thermal transients and its eﬀects on
the life of high voltage ac cables. IEEE Trans. Dielectr. Electr. Insul. 2009, 16, 1168–1179. [CrossRef]
3.
Bragatto, T.; Cresta, M.; Gatta, F.M.; Geri, A.; Maccioni, M.; Paulucci, M. Underground MV power cable
joints: A non-linear thermal circuit model and its experimental validation. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2017, 149,
190–197. [CrossRef]
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
33 of 38
4.
Zhao, Y.; Han, Z.; Xie, Y.; Fan, X.; Nie, Y.; Wang, P.; Liu, G.; Hao, Y.; Huang, J.; Zhu, W. Correlation Between
Thermal Parameters and Morphology of Cross-Linked Polyethylene. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 19726–19736.
[CrossRef]
5.
Nielsen, T.V.M.; Jakobsen, S.; Savaghebi, M. Dynamic Rating of Three–Core XLPE Submarine Cables for
Oﬀshore Wind Farms. Appl. Sci. 2019, 9, 800. [CrossRef]
6.
Anders, G.J.; Napieralski, A.; Zubert, M.; Orlikowski, M. Advanced modeling techniques for dynamic feeder
rating systems. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2003, 39, 619–626. [CrossRef]
7.
Singh, K. Cable monitoring solution—Predict with certainty. In Proceedings of the 12th IET International
Conference on Developments in Power System Protection (DPSP 2014), Copenhagen, Denmark,
31 March–3 April 2014; pp. 1–3.
8.
Bascom, E.C., III; Clairmont, B. Considerations for advanced temperature monitoring of underground
power cables. In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE PES T&D Conference and Exposition, Chicago, IL, USA,
14–17 April 2014.
9.
Anders, G.J. Rating of Electric Power Cables; McGraw–Hill: New York, NY, USA, 1997.
10.
Anders, G. Rating of Electric Power Cables in Unfavorable Thermal Environment; IEEE Press: Piscataway, NJ, USA,
2005.
11.
Benato, R.; Colla, L.; Dambone Sessa, S.; Marelli, M. Review of high current rating insulated cable solutions.
Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2016, 133, 36–41. [CrossRef]
12.
Zhou, C.; Yi, H.; Dong, X. Review of recent research towards power cable life cycle management. High Volt.
2017, 2, 179–187. [CrossRef]
13.
Chatzipetros, D.; Pilgrim, J.A. Review of the Accuracy of Single Core Equivalent Thermal Model for Oﬀshore
Wind Farm Cables. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2018, 33, 1913–1921. [CrossRef]
14.
Pérez–Rúa, J.A.; Cutululis, N.A. Electrical Cable Optimization in Oﬀshore Wind Farms–A Review. IEEE Access
2019, 7, 85796–85811. [CrossRef]
15.
Dong, Y.; McCartney, J.S.; Lu, N. Critical review of thermal conductivity models for unsaturated soils.
Geotech. Geol. Eng. 2015, 33, 207–221. [CrossRef]
16.
Zhang, N.; Wang, Z. Review of soil thermal conductivity and predictive models. Int. J. Therm. Sci. 2017, 117,
172–183. [CrossRef]
17.
Lauria, D.; Pagano, M.; Petrarca, C. Transient Thermal Modelling of HV XLPE Power Cables: Matrix
approach and experimental validation. In Proceedings of the IEEE Power & Energy Society General Meeting
(PESGM), Portland, OR, USA, 5–10 August 2018.
18.
Kennelly, A.E. Current Carrying Capacity of Electric Cables, Submerged, Buried or Suspended in the Air.
Electr. World 1893, 22, 183–201.
19.
Neher, J.H. The temperature rise of buried cables and pipes. Trans. Am. Inst. Elect. Eng. 1949, 68, 9–21.
[CrossRef]
20.
Neher, J.H.; McGrath, M.H. The calculation of the temperature rise and load capability of cable systems.
Trans. Am. Inst. Elect. Eng. Power App. Syst. Part III 1957, 76, 752–772. [CrossRef]
21.
Purushothaman, S.; de León, F.; Terracciano, M. Calculation of cable thermal rating considering non-isothermal
earth surface. IET Gener. Transmiss. Distrib. 2014, 8, 1354–1361. [CrossRef]
22.
Kutateladze, S.S. Fundamentals of Heat Transfer; Academic: New York, NY, USA, 1963.
23.
De Vries, D.A.; Philip, J.R. Soil Heat Flux, Thermal Conductivity, and the Null-alignment method. Soil Sci.
Soc. Am. J. 1986, 50, 12–18. [CrossRef]
24.
Buchan, G.D. Soil Temperature Regime, Chapter 14. In Soil and Environmental Analysis: Physical Methods,
2nd ed.; Smith, K.A., Mullins, C.E., Eds.; Marcel Dekker Inc.: New York, NY, USA, 2000; pp. 539–594.
25.
Philip, J.R.; de Vries, D.A. Moisture movement in porous materials under temperature gradients. Trans. Am.
Geophys. Union. 1957, 38, 222–232. [CrossRef]
26.
Van Wijk, W.R.; Derksen, W.J. Sinusoidal temperature variation in a layered soil.
In Physics of Plant
Environment; van Wijk, W.R., Ed.; North-Holland Publishing Company: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1963;
pp. 171–209.
27.
Van Wijk, W.R. General temperature variations in a homogeneous soil. In Physics of Plant Environment;
van Wijk, W.R., Ed.; North-Holland Publishing Company: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1963; pp. 144–170.
28.
IEC 60287-1-3: Calculations of the Continuous Current Rating of Cables (100% Load Factor); International
Electrotechnical Commission: Geneva, Switzerland, 1982.
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
34 of 38
29.
Gouda, O.E. Formation of the dried out zone around underground cables loaded by peak loadings.
In Modeling, Simulation & Control; Asme Press: Athens, Greece, 1986; Volume 7, pp. 35–46.
30.
Kroener, E.; Vallati, A.; Bittelli, M. Numerical simulation of coupled heat, liquid water and water vapor
in soils for heat dissipation of underground electrical power cables. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2014, 70, 510–523.
[CrossRef]
31.
IEC 60287–1–1. In Electric Cables–Calculation of the Current Rating–Part 1–1: Current Rating Equations (100%
Load Factor) and Calculation of Losses–General; International Electrotechnical Commission: Geneva, Switzerland,
2006.
32.
Malmedal, K.; Bates, C.; Cain, D.K. The Heat and Buried Cable Conundrum: A Method to Help Determine
Underground Cable Ampacity. IEEE Ind. Appl. Mag. 2016, 22, 20–31. [CrossRef]
33.
Hruška, M.; Clauser, C.; De Doncker, R.W. Inﬂuence of dry ambient conditions on performance of underground
medium-voltage DC cables. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2019, 149, 1419–1426. [CrossRef]
34.
Singh, D.N.; Devid, K. Generalized relationships for estimating soil thermal resistivity. Exp. Therm. Fluid Sci.
2000, 22, 133–143. [CrossRef]
35.
Gouda, O.E.; El Dein, A.Z.; Amer, G.M. Eﬀect of the Formation of the Dry Zone around Underground Power
Cables on Their Ratings. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2011, 26, 972–978. [CrossRef]
36.
Anders, G.J.; Radhakrishna, H.S. Power cable thermal analysis with consideration of heat and moisture
transfer in the soil. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 1988, 3, 1280–1288. [CrossRef]
37.
Millar, R.J.; Lehtonen, M. A robust framework for cable rating and temperature monitoring. IEEE Trans.
Power Deliv. 2006, 21, 313–321. [CrossRef]
38.
Donazzi, F.; Occhini, E.; Seppi, A. Soil thermal and hydrological characteristics in designing underground
cables. Proc. Inst. Elect. 1979, 126, 506–516. [CrossRef]
39.
Groeneveld, G.J.; Snijders, A.L.; Koopmans, G.; Vermeer, J. Improved method to calculate the critical
conditions for drying out sandy soils around power cables. IEEE Proc. 1984, 131 Pt C, 42–53. [CrossRef]
40.
Freitas, D.S.; Prata, A.T.; de Lima, A.J. Thermal performance of underground power cables with constant
and cyclic currents in presence of moisture migration in the surrounding soil. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 1996,
11, 1159–1170. [CrossRef]
41.
Hartley, J.G.; Black, W.Z. Transient simultaneous heat and mass transfer in moist unsaturated soils. Asme Trans.
1981, 103, 376–382. [CrossRef]
42.
Yenchek, M.R.; Cole, G.P. Thermal modelling of portable power cables. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 1997, 33, 72–79.
[CrossRef]
43.
Anders, G.J.; Napieralski, A.; Kulesza, Z. Calculation of the internal thermal resistance and ampacity of
3-core screened cables with ﬁllers. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 1999, 14, 729–734. [CrossRef]
44.
Schmidt, N.P. Comparison between IEEE and CIGRE ampacity standards. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 1999, 14,
1555–1562. [CrossRef]
45.
Garrido, C.; Antonio, F.O.; Cidras, J. Theoretical model to calculate steady-state and transient ampacity and
temperature in buried cables. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2003, 18, 667–678. [CrossRef]
46.
Demoulias, C.; Labridis, D.P.; Dokopoulos, P.S.; Gouramanis, K. Ampacity of Low-Voltage Power Cables
Under Nonsinusoidal Currents. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2007, 22, 584–594. [CrossRef]
47.
de León, F.; Anders, G.J. Eﬀects of backﬁlling on cable ampacity analyzed with the ﬁnite element method.
IEEE Trans. Power Del. 2008, 23, 537–543. [CrossRef]
48.
Brakelmann, H.; Anders, G.J.; Cherukupalli, S. Underground cable hot spot. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2020,
35, 592–599. [CrossRef]
49.
Tobin, B.; Zadehgol, H.; Ho, K.; Welsh, G.; Prestrud, J. A water cooling system to improve ampacity
in underground urban distribution cables. In Proceedings of the 2005/2006 IEEE/PES Transmission and
Distribution Conference and Exhibition, Dallas, TX, USA, 21–24 May 2006; pp. 432–437.
50.
Klimenta, D.; Tasi, D.; Jevti, M. The use of hydronic asphalt pavements as an alternative method of eliminating
hot spots of underground power cables. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2020, 168, 114818. [CrossRef]
51.
He, H.; Zhao, Y.; Dyck, M.F.; Si, B.; Jin, H.; Lv, J.; Wang, J. A modiﬁed normalized model for predicting
eﬀective soil thermal conductivity. Acta Geotech. 2017, 12, 1281–1300. [CrossRef]
52.
Yan, H.; He, H.; Dyck, M.; Jin, H.; Li, M.; Si, B.; Lv, J. A generalized model for estimating eﬀective soil thermal
conductivity based on the Kasubuchi algorithm. Geoderma 2019, 353, 227–242. [CrossRef]
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
35 of 38
53.
De Vries, D.A. Thermal properties of soils. In Physics of the Plant Environment; Van Wijk, W.R., Ed.; John Wiley
& Sons: New York, NY, USA, 1963; pp. 210–235.
54.
Bejan, A.; Kraus, A.D. Heat Transfer Handbook; Wiley: New York, NY, USA, 2003.
55.
Tarnawski, V.R.; Momose, T.; Leong, W.H. Assessing the impact of quartz content on the prediction of soil
thermal conductivity. Geotechnique 2009, 59, 331–338. [CrossRef]
56.
Farouki, O.T. Thermal properties of soils. In Cold Regions Science and Engineering 1981; CRREL Monograph
81–1; US Army Corps of Engineers, Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory: Hanover, NH, USA,
1981.
57.
Brandon, T.L.; Mitchell, J.K. Factors inﬂuencing thermal resistivity of sands. J. Geotech. Eng. 1989, 115,
1683–1698. [CrossRef]
58.
Smits, K.M.; Sakaki, T.; Limsuwat, A.; Illangasekare, T.H. Thermal conductivity of sands under varying
moisture and porosity in drainage–wetting cycles. Vadose Zone J. 2010, 9, 172–180. [CrossRef]
59.
Aduda, B.O. Eﬀective thermal conductivity of loose particulate systems. J. Mater. Sci. 1996, 31, 6441–6448.
[CrossRef]
60.
Tarnawski, V.R.; Leong, W.H.; Gori, F.; Buchan, G.D.; Sundberg, J. Interparticle contact heat transfer in soil
systems at moderate temperatures. Int. J. Energy Res. 2002, 26, 1345–1358. [CrossRef]
61.
Yu, X.B.; Zhang, N.; Pradhan, A.; Puppala, A.J. Thermal conductivity of sand-kaolin clay mixtures.
Environ. Geotech. 2016, 3, 190–202. [CrossRef]
62.
Zhang, N.; Yu, X.B.; Pradhan, A.; Puppala, A.J. Thermal conductivity of quartz sands by thermo-TDR probe
and model prediction. Asce J. Mater. Civ. Eng. 2015, 27, 04015059. [CrossRef]
63.
Campbell, G.S.; Jungbauer, J.D.; Bidlake, W.R.; Hungerford, R.D. Predicting the eﬀect of temperature on soil
thermal conductivity. Soil Sci. 1994, 158, 307–313. [CrossRef]
64.
Hiraiwa, Y.; Kasubuchi, T. Temperature dependence of thermal conductivity of soil over a wide range of
temperature (5–75 ◦C). Eur. J. Soil Sci. 2000, 51, 211–218. [CrossRef]
65.
Tarnawski, V.R.; Gori, F. Enhancement of the cubic cell soil thermal conductivity model. Int. J. Energy Res.
2002, 26, 143–157. [CrossRef]
66.
Smits, K.M.; Sakaki, T.; Howington, S.E.; Peters, J.F.; Illangasekare, T.H. Temperature dependence of thermal
properties of sands across a wide range of temperatures (30–70 ◦C). Vadose Zone J. 2013, 12, 1–8. [CrossRef]
67.
Vargas, W.L.; McCarthy, J.J. Heat conduction in granular materials. AIChE J. 2001, 47, 1052–1059. [CrossRef]
68.
Wiener, O. Abhandl math-phys Kl Konigl. SachsischenGes 1912, 32, 509.
69.
Tian, Z.; Lu, Y.; Horton, R.; Ren, T. A simpliﬁed de Vries-based model to estimate thermal conductivity of
unfrozen and frozen soil. Eur. J. Soil Sci. 2016, 67, 564–572. [CrossRef]
70.
Ochsner, T.E.; Horton, R.; Ren, T. A new perspective on soil thermal properties. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 2001, 65,
1641–1647. [CrossRef]
71.
Gori, F. A theoretical model for predicting the eﬀective thermal conductivity of unsaturated frozen soils.
In Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Permafrost; National Academy Press: Fairbanks, AL,
USA; Washington, DC, USA, 1983; pp. 363–368.
72.
He, H.; Noborio, K.; Johansen, O.; Dyck, M.F.; Lv, J. Normalized concept for modelling eﬀective soil thermal
conductivity from dryness to saturation. Eur. J. Soil Sci. 2020, 71, 27–43. [CrossRef]
73.
Johansen, O. Thermal Conductivity of Soils. Ph.D. Thesis, University of Trondheim, Trondheim, Norway,
1975.
74.
Liu, G.; Xu, Z.; Ma, H.; Hao, Y.; Wang, P.; Wu, W.; Xie, Y.; Guo, D. An improved analytical thermal rating
method for cables installed in short-conduits. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2020, 123, 106223. [CrossRef]
75.
IEC
Standard
60287-2-1-2015.
In
Electric
Cables—Calculation
of
the
Current
Rating—Thermal
Resistance-Calculation of Thermal Resistance; International Electrotechnical Commission: Geneva, Switzerland,
2015.
76.
Vaucheret, P.; Hartlein, R.A.; Black, W.Z. Ampacity Derating Factors for Cables Buried in Short Segments of
Conduit. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2005, 20, 560–565. [CrossRef]
77.
Brakelmann, H.; Anders, G. Ampacity Reduction Factors for Cables Crossing Thermally Unfavorable Regions.
IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2001, 16, 444–448. [CrossRef]
78.
Maximov, S.; Venegas, V.; Guardado, J.L.; Moreno, E.L.; López, R. Analysis of underground cable ampacity
considering non–uniform soil temperature distributions. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2016, 132, 22–29. [CrossRef]
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
36 of 38
79.
Degefa, M.Z.; Lehtonen, M.; Millar, R.J. Comparison of Air-Gap Thermal Models for MV Power Cables
Inside Unﬁlled Conduit. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2012, 27, 1662–1669. [CrossRef]
80.
Benato, R.; Dambone Sessa, S. A New Multiconductor Cell Three–Dimension Matrix–Based Analysis Applied
to a Three–Core Armoured Cable. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2018, 33, 1636–1646. [CrossRef]
81.
Zhou, B.; Le, Y.; Fang, Y.; Yang, F.; Dai, T.; Sun, L.; Liu, J.; Zou, L. Temperature ﬁeld simulation and ampacity
optimization of 500 kV HVDC cable. J. Eng. 2019, 2019, 2448–2453.
82.
Hamdan, M.A.; Pilgrim, J.A.; Lewin, P.L. Eﬀect of Sheath Plastic Deformation on Electric Field in Three Core
Submarine Cables. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Electrical Insulation and Dielectric Phenomena
(CEIDP), Cancun, Mexico, 21–24 October 2018; pp. 342–345.
83.
Huang, R.; Pilgrim, J.A.; Lewin, P.L.; Scott, D.; Morrice, D. Managing cable thermal stress through predictive
ratings. In Proceedings of the IEEE Electrical Insulation Conference (EIC), Seattle, WA, USA, 7–10 June 2015;
pp. 110–113.
84.
Hughes, T.J.; Henstock, T.J.; Pilgrim, J.A.; Dix, J.K.; Gernon, T.M.; Thompson, C.E.L. Eﬀect of Sediment
Properties on the Thermal Performance of Submarine HV Cables. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2015, 30,
2443–2450. [CrossRef]
85.
Callender, G.; Ellis, D.; Goddard, K.F.; Dix, J.; Pilgrim, J.; Erdmann, M. Low Computational Cost Model for
Convective Heat Transfer from Submarine Cables. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2020, in press. [CrossRef]
86.
Arias Velásquez, R.M.; Mejía Lara, J.V. New methodology for design and failure analysis of underground
transmission lines. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2020, 115, 104604. [CrossRef]
87.
Diaz–Aguiló, M.; De León, F.; Jazebi, S.; Terracciano, M. Ladder–Type Soil Model for Dynamic Thermal
Rating of Underground Power Cable. IEEE Power Energy Technol. Syst. J. 2014, 1, 21–30. [CrossRef]
88.
Olsen, R.S.; Holboell, J.; Gudmundsdottir, U.S. Dynamic temperature estimation and real time emergency
rating of transmission cables. In Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE Power and Energy Society General Meeting,
San Diego, CA, USA, 22–26 July 2012.
89.
Nahman, J.; Tanaskovic, M. Calculation of the loading capacity of high voltage cables laid in close proximity
to heat pipelines using iterative ﬁnite-element method. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2018, 103, 310–316.
[CrossRef]
90.
Naskar, A.K.; Bhattacharya, N.K.; Sarkar, D. Transient thermal analysis of underground power cables using
two dimensional ﬁnite element method. Microsyst. Technol. 2018, 24, 1279–1293. [CrossRef]
91.
Lux, J.; Czerniuk, T.; Olschewski, M.; Hill, W. Non–concentric Ladder Soil Model for Dynamic Rating of
Buried Power Cables. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. (Early Access) 2020, in press. [CrossRef]
92.
Hanna, M.A.; Chikhani, A.Y.; Salama, M.M.A. Thermal analysis of power cable systems in a trench in
multi-layered soil. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 1998, 13, 304–309. [CrossRef]
93.
Nahman, J.; Tanaskovic, M. Determination of the current carrying capacity of cables using the ﬁnite element
method. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2002, 61, 109–117. [CrossRef]
94.
Jenkins, L.; Fahmi, N.; Yang, J. Application of dynamic asset rating on the UK LV and 11 kV underground
power distribution network. In Proceedings of the 52nd International Universities Power Engineering
Conference (UPEC), Heraklion, Greece, 28–31 August 2017; pp. 1–6.
95.
Al–Saud, M.S. Assessment of thermal performance of underground current carrying conductors. IET Gener.
Transm. Distrib. 2011, 5, 630–639. [CrossRef]
96.
Nguyen, N.K.; Vu, P.T.; Tlusty, J. New approach of thermal ﬁeld and ampacity of underground cables using
adaptive hp-FEM. In Proceedings of the IEEE PES T&D, New Orleans, LA, USA, 19–22 April 2010.
97.
Desmet, J.; Putman, D.; Vanalme, G.; Belmans, R.; Vandommelent, D. Thermal analysis of parallel underground
energy cables. In Proceedings of the CIRED 2005—18th International Conference and Exhibition on Electricity
Distribution, Turin, Italy, 6–9 June 2005; pp. 1–4.
98.
Benato, R.; Dambone Sessa, S.; Forzan, M.; Marelli, M.; Pietribiasi, D. Core laying pitch–long 3D ﬁnite element
model of an AC three–core armoured submarine cable with a length of 3 meter. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2017,
150, 137–143. [CrossRef]
99.
Demoulias, C.; Labridis, D.P.; Dokopoulos, P.S.; Gouramanis, K. Inﬂuence of metallic trays on the ac resistance
and ampacity of low-voltage cables under non-sinusoidal currents. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2008, 78, 883–896.
[CrossRef]
100. Hwang, C.C.; Chang, J.J.; Chen, H.Y. Calculation of ampacities for cables in trays using ﬁnite elements. Electr.
Power Syst. Res. 2000, 54, 75–81. [CrossRef]
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
37 of 38
101. Ocło´n, P.; Cisek, P.; Pilarczyk, M.; Taler, D. Numerical simulation of heat dissipation processes in underground
power cable system situated in thermal backﬁll and buried in a multilayered soil. Energy Convers. Manag.
2015, 951, 352–370. [CrossRef]
102. Multiphysics, COMSOL. Comsol Multi-Physics User Guide (Version 4.3 a); COMSOL: USA, 2012. Available
online: https://cdn.comsol.com/doc/4.3/COMSOL_ReleaseNotes.pdf (accessed on 1 September 2020).
103. Guide, ANSYS FLUENT User. Release 14.0; ANSYS. Inc.: USA, 2011. Available online: http://www.pmt.
usp.br/academic/martoran/notasmodelosgrad/ANSYS%20Fluent%20Users%20Guide.pdf (accessed on 3
September 2020).
104. Korovkin, N.; Greshnyakov, G.; Dubitsky, S. Multiphysics approach to the boundary problems of power
engineering and their application to the analysis of load-carrying capacity of power cable line. In Proceedings
of the Electric Power Quality and Supply Reliability Conference (PQ), Rakvere, Estonia, 11–13 June 2014;
pp. 341–346.
105. Zhang, Y.; Chen, X.; Zhang, H.; Liu, J.; Zhang, C.; Jiao, J. Analysis on the temperature ﬁeld and the ampacity
of XLPE submarine HV cable based on electro-thermal-ﬂow multiphysics coupling simulation. Polymers
2020, 12, 952. [CrossRef]
106. Ren, Y.; Wu, K.; Coker, D.F.; Quirke, N. Thermal transport in model copper-polyethylene interfaces.
J. Chem. Phys. 2019, 151, 174708. [CrossRef]
107. Lu, Z.; Wang, Y.; Ruan, X. The critical particle size for enhancing thermal conductivity in metal
nanoparticle-polymer composites. J. Appl. Phys. 2018, 123, 074302. [CrossRef]
108. Dubitsky, S.; Greshnyakov, G.; Korovkin, N. Reﬁnement of underground power cable ampacity by
multiphysics FEA simulation. Int. J. Energy 2015, 9, 12–19.
109. Dubitsky, S.; Greshnyakov, G.; Korovkin, N. Comparison of ﬁnite element analysis to IEC-60287 for predicting
underground cable ampacity. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Energy Conference (ENERGYCON),
Leuven, Belgium, 4–8 April 2016; pp. 1–6.
110. Olsen, R.S.; Anders, G.J.; Holboell, J.; Gudmundsdottir, U.S. Modelling of dynamic transmission cable
temperature considering soil-speciﬁc heat thermal resistivity, and precipitation. IEEE Trans. Power Del. 2013,
28, 1909–1917. [CrossRef]
111. Enescu, D.; Russo, A.; Porumb, R.; Seritan, G. Dynamic Thermal Rating of Electric Cables: A Conceptual
Overview. In Proceedings of the 55th International Universities Power Engineering Conference, Torino, Italy,
1–4 September 2020. in press.
112. Meliopoulos, A.P.S.; Martin, M.A. Calculation of secondary cable losses and ampacity in the presence of
harmonics. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 1992, 7, 451–459. [CrossRef]
113. Hiranandani, A. Calculation of cable ampacities including the eﬀects of harmonics. Ind. Appl. Mag. 1998, 4,
42–51. [CrossRef]
114. Palmer, J.A.; Degeneﬀ, R.C.; McKernan, T.M.; Halleran, T.M. Pipe-type cable ampacities in the presence of
harmonics. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 1993, 8, 1689–1695. [CrossRef]
115. Yong, J.; Xu, W. A Method to Estimate the Impact of Harmonic and Unbalanced Currents on the Ampacity of
Concentric Neutral Cables. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2016, 1, 1971–1979. [CrossRef]
116. Biryulin, V.I.; Gorlov, A.N.; Kudelina, D.V. Calculation of Cable Lines Insulation Heating with the Account
of High Harmonics Currents. In Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Industrial Engineering,
Applications and Manufacturing (ICIEAM), Moscow, Russia, 15–18 May 2018.
117. Wang, H.; Zhou, W.; Qian, K.; Meng, S. Modelling of ampacity and temperature of MV cables in presence of
harmonic currents due to EVs charging in electrical distribution networks. Intern. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst.
2019, 112, 127–136. [CrossRef]
118. El-Kady, M.A. Optimization of Power Cable and Thermal Backﬁll Conﬁgurations. IEEE Power Appar. Syst.
1982, 12, 4681–4688. [CrossRef]
119. Foty, M.S.; Anders, G.J.; Croall, S.C. Cable environment analysis and the probabilistic approach to cable
rating. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 1990, 5, 1628–1633. [CrossRef]
120. Zhao, H.C.; Lyall, J.S.; Nourbakhsh, G. Probabilistic cable rating based on cable thermal environment studying.
In Proceedings of the PowerCon International Conference on Power System Technology (Cat. No.00EX409),
Perth, Australia, 4–7 December 2000; Volume 2, pp. 1071–1076.
\nEnergies 2020, 13, 5319
38 of 38
121. Shabani, H.; Vahidi, B. A probabilistic approach for optimal power cable ampacity computation by considering
uncertainty of parameters and economic constraints. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2019, 106, 432–443.
[CrossRef]
122. Zarchi, D.A.; Vahidi, B. Hong Point Estimate Method to analyze uncertainty in the underground cables
temperature. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2020, 124, 106390. [CrossRef]
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional
aﬃliations.
© 2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access
article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution
(CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
